
PLAYER PICS

Users may add/replace/delete their own player pics.  The player
pics are located in the /usr/local/share/NSB/PlayerPics directory
(after installation).  The name of the file which contains the pic
must match exactly the player's name as it appears in NSB (first name
first, last name last) including upper and lower case and with no
embedded spaces.  A hyphen and the player's Date of Birth (mmddyyyy)
must be appended to the name.  Additionally, the filename extension
must be ".jpg" without the quotes.  (Even though the format of the
image doesn't need to be a jpeg, NSB expects a .jpg file extension.)
So, for example, the player pic file for Jarrod Saltalamacchia must
be named "JarrodSaltalamacchia-05021985.jpg" without the quotes.
In another example, the player pic file for J.D. Drew must be named
"J.D.Drew-11201975.jpg" without the quotes.  (You may see a player's
Date of Birth with the Statistics->Real Life->By Player drop-down menu
item in NSB.  In some cases the month and/or day and/or even the year
may be unknown.  Substitute zeros for any unknown data.)

The display of the player pics can be turned on or off in preferences
(see Game->Preferences).

The player pics will not display (even if they are turned on in
preferences) if gameplay speed is at the fastest setting and there are
no human managers.

A few player pics could not be located.  If anyone finds a pic for any
player who is pic-less please send it to me at <marshallelake@gmail.com>.


REAL LIFE STATS

Sometimes players are traded to another team in the middle of a real life
season which means their stats are spread out over more than one team for
that season.  The intent with the real life player stats in NSB is to have
any one player appear only once in any one season.  In the case where a
player played for more than one team in any one season the stats for that
player have been combined so that his stats for the entire season show up
on whichever team for which he played the most games (most of the time).

Please advise me if you see where I may have missed some cases, or if
you see any other problems with the stats.

Other notes with regard to the real life stats:
  .some stats are not always known either because they are not available
   with the means I used to acquire them (see next bullet) or because
   MLB did not record them (in a few cases the stat in question did
   not exist due to rule changes, e.g. from 1901 through 1953 a SF was
   charged as an AB in some years and in other years it was not ... in
   1954 SF was permanently accepted as not being an AB)
  .more real life stats for the year 1998 are included in NSB than for
   other years ... the 1998 stats were input by hand from multiple
   books, the stats for all the other years were downloaded from
   www.baseball-reference.com and programmically reformatted
  .the complete fielding stats for outfielders are split among the three
   outfield positions only for the more recent years, however games
   played at the three outfield positions are available for all years


NSB SERVER

There may be an open NSB server running at mlake.net

Send any questions or comments to marshallelake@gmail.com


Marshall Lake
MarshallELake@gmail.com (best email address)
mlake@mlake.net
nsb@mlake.net

