Nov 1

1906
P John McCloskey, 3-2 with the Phils, has better luck off the field. An
investment in the Cripple Creek, CO mine pays off with a rich gold strike.

1909
The Red Sox hire former Washington skipper Patsy Donovan as manager, replacing
Fred Lake. Lake will move across town to manage the Braves next season.

1914
Connie Mack begins cleaning house, asks waivers on Jack Coombs, Eddie Plank
and Chief Bender. Colby Jack goes to Brooklyn (NL). Plank and Bender escape
Mack's maneuvering by jumping to the Federal League. Although all have some
life left in their soupbones, they are near their careers' end, and departure
is more sentimental than serious. Mack's excuse: retrenchment. Despite the
pennant, Philadelphia fans did not support the A's and the club lost $50,000.

1916
Harry H. Frazee, New York theater owner and producer, and Hugh Ward buy the
Red Sox for $675,000 (one report puts the figure at $750,000) from Joseph
Lannin. Bill Carrigan announces that he will retire as Red Sox manager to
pursue his interests in Lewiston, Maine.

1918
Outfielder Alex Burr is killed in France on his 25th birthday, the 3rd
Major Leaguer to die in WWI. MLB players killed in WWI include Burr, Larry
Chappell (in 8 days), Eddie Grant, Ralph Sharman and Bun Troy. World War 2
ML casualties will be Elmer Gedeon and Harry O'Neill. Bob Neighbors will be
listed as Missing in Action in Korea to complete the casualty list. There
will be no ML players killed in Korea.

1922
Former A's C Ira Thomas buys the Shreveport club in the Texas League for
$75,000. Other former players who own pieces of minor league clubs include
Ty Cobb (Augusta), Eddie Collins (Baltimore) and George Stallings (Rochester).

1934
The Giants obtain Dick Bartell from the Phillies for 3B Johnny Vergez,
P Pretzel Pezzulo, OF George Watkins and cash. Bartell will help cement
the Giants infield for the next two years.

1938
NL batting champ Ernie Lombardi is named MVP by the BBWAA. Chicago P Bill
Lee is runner-up.

1942
Larry MacPhail enters the army and the Dodgers look to St. Louis for
leadership. After 2 decades in St. Louis, Branch Rickey splits with owner
Sam Breadon. He will sign to become GM at Brooklyn.

1943
League statistics show the White Sox' Luke Appling leading the AL hitters
with .328, the lowest since Cobb hit .324 to lead in 1908. Conversely,
of course, the pitchers' marks were topped by Spud Chandler's 1.64 ERA,
the best since 1919. Spud also has the best percentage at .833 with a 20-4
won-lost mark. The White Sox aging OF Wally Moses stole 56 bases after
stealing only 3 two years before. The veteran Mel Ott hits only .234 for
his Giants, but he still has 18 homers - all in the Polo Grounds.

1944
Total attendance in the 2 leagues is 8.9 million. No team draws over a
million as Detroit leads with 923,000.

The Sporting News selects Bobby Doerr as the MVP in the American League
and Marty Marion as the MVP in the NL. Doerr was leading the AL in hitting
(.325) and was third in RBIs when he entered the Army with a month to go
in the season. Marion's selection as MVP will stand up and he will be the
official MVP in the Senior circuit, but Detroit's Hal Newhouser will be
the official MVP in the American League.

1946
The right foot of Cleveland owner Bill Veeck is amputated, a result of a
war injury in the South Pacific 2 years before. Veeck has had a tremendous
impact on promotion in a half season of ownership. A minor but typical
change is the regular posting of NL scores on the Cleveland scoreboard,
a departure from the long-standing practice of both leagues.

1949
Gillette buys the WS television rights for $1.37 million, the money to be
dedicated to the players pension fund.

1951
Future Hall of Famer Roy Campanella (.325, 33, 108) wins the first of his
three National League MVP Awards. The Dodger backstop will also receive
the prestigious honor in 1953 and 1955.

1957
The Nishitetsu Lions sweep the Yomiuri Giants in the Japanese WS.

1960
Baltimore SS Ron Hansen is voted AL Rookie of the Year, getting 22 of 24
votes. The other 2 votes go to teammates Chuck Estrada and Jim Gentile.

1966
Sandy Koufax becomes the first 3-time winner of the Cy Young Award. He is
a unanimous winner for the 2nd-straight year. This is the last year that
only one award is given for pitchers in both of the MLs.

1968
Denny McLain is the unanimous AL winner of the Cy Young Award.

1978
After dominating the American League, Yankee lefty Ron Guidry (25-3,
1.74) wins the league's Cy Young Award unanimously. 'Gator' receives all
28 first-place votes with Mike Caldwell and Jim Palmer the runner-ups for
the prestigious pitching award. Guidry led the league in wins, percentage,
shutouts (9) and ERA.

1979
Edward Bennett Williams buys the Orioles for a reported $12.3 million from
Jerold Hoffberger. The successful trial attorney will own the club until his
death in 1988, and under his ownership, the team will signed a new long-term
lease with the city of Baltimore that will pay for the innovative Oriole
Park at Camden Yards, a ballpark he will not live to see.

In separate deals, the Yankees acquire OF Ruppert Jones from the Mariners
and C Rick Cerone and Tom Underwood from the Blue Jays, giving up 7 players,
including popular 1B Chris Chambliss, SS Damaso Garcia, OF Juan Beniquez,
and Ps Jim Beattie and Paul Mirabella. Chambliss will be with the Blue Jays
a month before they swap him to Atlanta.

1982
Doug Rader becomes the twelfth manager in the Rangers twelve-year history. The
38-year-old managed the Padres Triple A club for the past three years.

At a meeting in Chicago, the ML owners vote not to renew Commissioner
Bowie Kuhn's contract, which will expire next August (after 14 years in
the position). The AL owners voted in favor of Kuhn 11-3, the NL 7-5. But
his 18 votes left him 2 shy of the three-fourths majority required for
re-election. Next year, the commissioner's supporters will make a failed
last-ditch effort to retain him, but he will be allowed to stay in his
position to the end of the 1984 regular season, before being replaced by
Peter Ueberroth.

1988
Chris Sabo, who hit .271 with 11 homeruns and 46 stolen bases as the Reds'
3B, wins the NL Rookie of the Year award. Chicago's Mark Grace is runner-up.

1993
Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott returns to take over the day-to-day
operations of the Reds following her 9-month suspension for using racial
and ethnic epithets.

1994
Plans are announced for the new United League, which plans to compete with
the existing major leagues.

1996
The major league All-Star team opens their 8-game series in Japan with a
6-5 loss to the Japan All-Stars. Players include Cal Ripken, Sammy Sosa,
Steve Finley, Brady Anderson, Barry Bonds, Mike Piazza, Hideo Nomo, Gary
Sheffield, Alex Rodriguez and Shane Reynolds.

1997
The Negro Leagues Baseball Museum opens in its new home in Kansas City,
Missouri. It had been occupying a temporary site there for 4 years.

1999
The Cubs hire Atlanta Braves coach Don Baylor as their new manager.

The Indians hire hitting coach Charlie Manuel as their new manager.

2000
Larry Bowa is hired as the Phillies manager replacing the recently released
Terry Franconia. The former Phillies shortstop had managed the Padres in
1987-88 to a record of 81-127.

Succeeding Davey Johnson, Jim Tracy, the team's bench coach, is hired as
the Dodgers manager. L.A.'s new skipper will compile a 427-383 (.527) record
during his five-year stint with the club, including a NL West Division flag
in 2004.

2001
The first major league game ever started in the month of November is a
memorable one when the Yankees, for the second consecutive night, make a
dramatic comeback in the bottom of the ninth to tie the game and go on to
World Series victory in extra innings. Tonight's heroes are Scott Brosius, who
hits a game-tying two-out two-run homer to knot the game at 2-2, and Alfonso
Soriano, who singles in Chuck Knoblauch in the 12th giving the Yankees a 3-2
victory and 3-2 lead in the Fall Classic over the Diamondbacks. Byung-Hyun
Kim is again victimized. Steve Finley and Rod Barajas homer in the 5th for
Arizona's runs.

The Astros name Jimy Williams, 58, as the franchise's thirteenth skipper. The
35-year veteran, who also managed the Blue Jays and Red Sox, replaces Larry
Dierker, who despite reaching the post-season four times in five seasons
was unable to win a playoff series. Williams signs a 3-year contract.

2004
Wally Backman signs a two-year contract to manage the Diamondbacks, baseball's
worst team last season. The 45-year-old former major league infielder,
who replaces interim manager Al Pedrique, was the skipper of the Lancaster
JetHawks, Arizona's Class A team in California, posting an 86-54 record.

2005
A bronze sculpture featuring the friendship of Pee Wee Reese and Jackie
Robinson is unveiled at Brooklyn's KeySpan Park, home of the Mets Single-A
team. The William Behrends sculpture captures the moment when the Dodger
captain showed support by putting his arm around his black teammate's
shoulder, hushing an unruly crowd hurling racial slurs at his teammate at
Crosley Field in 1947.

Outfielders Ichiro Suzuki and Torii Hunter, and 3B Eric Chavez each wins
his 5th consecutive Gold Glove Award as the winners are announced for the AL.

2006
In a move designed to prepare the team's next manager, the Yankees promote
hitting instructor Don Mattingly to bench coach to assist Joe Torre for
next season. The Bronx Bombers' former All-Star first baseman replaces Lee
Mazzilli, who will not be brought back by New York.

The Seibu Lions officially agree to release Daisuke Matsuzaka, giving the
26-year-old Japanese League pitching sensation an opportunity to play in the
United States. It is reported the team plans to charge an American major
league club $30 million just for rights to negotiate with the former 2006
World Baseball Classic and 2004 Olympic teams standout.

The commissioner's office announces that Mets reliever Guillermo Mota is
suspended for 50 games for testing positive for a performance-enhancing
substance. He becomes the 3rd player penalized this year for violating
MLB's toughened drug policy.

2007
The Dodgers hire Brooklyn-born Joe Torre as their 26th manager in franchise
history, the eighth since the club moved to the West Coast from their new
manager's hometown. The former Yankee manager was replaced in New York
this week by Joe Girardi, who had been initially pursued by Los Angeles to
replace the team's skipper, Grady Little.

In an interview aired on MSNBC, Barry Bonds said he is prepared to boycott
his induction, when elected, into the Hall of Fame if the museum accepts
the ball he hit for his record-breaking 756th career homerun marked with
a permanent asterisk. Fashion designer Marc Ecko, who bought the historic
sphere for $752,467, released the results of an internet poll he conducted
on www.vote756.com, in which nearly half the fans (47%), voted in favor of
sending it to Cooperstown after branding the ball.

In response to Hank Steinbrenner's sarcastic remark about Alex Rodriguez
entering the Hall of Fame as a member of the Mud Hens rather than as a Yankee,
the Toledo Triple A team frivolously offers the free agent a contract. The
minor league deal includes a bonus for hitting 75 homeruns next season
and leading the affiliate of the Tigers to ten consecutive International
League titles.

After retiring 24 of 24 Ham Fighters batters in eight innings, Daisuke
Yamai of the Dragons is replaced by the closer Hitoki Iwase, who retires
the side in order and gets a save in the 1-0 victory against Nippon. The
combined perfect game in game 5 of the seven-game series wins the Japanese
Series and brings Chunichi its first title in 53 years.

2008
The Red Sox and Lee County (FL) sign an agreement which will keep Boston's
spring training home in the Fort Myers area for the next three decades. The
30-year deal will keep the team playing in the City of Palms Park, until
a new complex is completed prior to the 2012 season.

2010
Edgar Renteria, who drove in the winning run for the Marlins against Cleveland
in the 11th inning during Game 7 of the 1997 Fall Classic, joins Yankees
legends Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio and Yogi Berra as only the fourth player
in baseball history to collect two World Series-winning hits. The Series
MVP's three-run homer off Cliff Lee in the seventh inning leads to San
Francisco's 3-1 victory over the Rangers, and brings a World Championship
to the Giants for the first time since 1954.

2014
The Blue Jays trade long-time fan favorite Adam Lind to the Brewers in
exchange for right-handed starter Marco Estrada, who will become a mainstay
in the Toronto rotation. The team's former DH will play one season with
the Brew Crew before being traded to Seattle for three minor leaguers.

