Nov 8

1902
The Sporting Life today reports a bizarre death of a scorekeeper during a
town game at Morristown, Ohio on November 28. Stanton Walker was keeping
score and, needing to sharpen his pencil, borrowed a knife from the person
next to him. He was sharpening a point when a foul ball struck his hand,
driving the knife blade into his heart, killing him.

1904
Umpire Silk O'Loughlin runs for a state assembly seat as a Democrat and loses.

1920
At a meeting to depose Ban Johnson, a new 12-team National League, made
up of the dissenting 11 teams plus one of the 5 teams loyal to Johnson, is
agreed to. John Heydler will be its president and Judge Landis the proposed
chairman of the new commission. With no stomach for another war, 4 of the 5 AL
clubs still backing Johnson agree to a joint meeting November 12th in Chicago.

1934
Ford Frick, NL publicity director, is named league president. He will
eventually become commissioner.

1945
For the second year in a row, MVP honors in the AL go to Detroit's Hal
Newhouser. Teammate Eddie Mayo finishes a distant 2nd, with George Stirnweiss
a close 3rd. Newhouser is the only pitcher to ever win the honor twice in
a row.

1950
After leading the league with a 144 RBIs, Walt Dropo is selected as the
American League's Rookie of the Year. The slugging first baseman is the
first Red Sox player to win the award.

Commissioner Happy Chandler and player reps agree on the split of the
TV-radio rights from the WS.

1951
In one of the closest votes in history of the award, the BBWAA name
Yankees catcher Yogi Berra as the American League's Most Valuable Player
(first of 3 for Yogi), ahead of 20-game winner Ned Garver of the last place
Browns. Initially, Garver was phoned and told that he had won the award,
but a recount showed that Yogi was the winner. With the selection of Roy
Campanella by the writers last week, it marks the first time two catchers
have copped the prestigious prize in the same season.

The White Sox send P Randy Gumpert and OF Don Lenhardt to the Red Sox for
P Chuck Stobbs and infielder Mel Hoderlein.

1955
The Senators trade stalwarts Mickey Vernon, Bob Porterfield, Johnny Schmitz
and Tom Umphlett to the Red Sox for 5 young players:  P Dick Brodowski,
P Truman Clevenger, P Al Curtis, and outfielders Neil Chrisley and Karl Olson.

1961
Whitey Ford is voted the Cy Young Award winner over Warren Spahn.

1962
Charlie Metro, head coach of the Cubs college of coaches from June 4th to
season's end (43-69), is fired.

1966
Frank Robinson of the Orioles is the unanimous choice as AL MVP. He is the
first player to win the award in both leagues. Teammates Brooks Robinson
and Boog Powell follow in the voting.

1967
The Reds trade OF Art Shamsky to the Mets for IF Bob Johnson.

1972
The Cards bring Tim McCarver back to St. Louis, sending Jorge Roque to
Montreal in exchange.

1977
Hall of Fame skipper Bucky Harris dies on his 81st birthday in Bethesda,
Maryland. In 1924, the 'Boy Wonder' became the player-manager for the
Senators, winning a World Championship with Washington in his first year
at the helm at the age of 27.

Free agent Richie Zisk, formerly of the White Sox, signs a 10-year $2.3
million contract with the Rangers.

1979
The Yankees ink 1B-DH Bob Watson and P Rudy May, the first re-entry free
agents to sign long-term contracts with new teams.

Mets president Lorinda de Roulet announces the team is for sale, beginning
a 2-month bidding war.

1983
Dale Murphy (.302, 36, 121, 30 SBs) joins Ernie Banks, Joe Morgan and Mike
Schmidt as one of the only players who have won the MVP award in consecutive
seasons. The soft-spoken Braves' outfielder receives 21 of the 24 votes
cast by the writers.

1989
Cubs OF Jerome Walton wins the NL Rookie of the Year Award, collecting 22
of 24 first-place votes to defeat teammate Dwight Smith. They are the first
NL teammates to finish 1-2 in the voting since the Phillies' Jack Sanford
and Ed Bouchee in 1957. Walton is the first Cub to win rookie honors since
Billy Williams, in 1961.

1990
Darryl Strawberry, the Mets all-time homerun leader (252), ends his eight-year
turbulent tenure with New York. The slugging right fielder signs a five-year
free-agent deal with his hometown Dodgers.

1991
Cal Ripken Jr is named the AL MVP, beating out Cecil Fielder of Detroit. The
Gold Glove third baseman hit .323 with 34 homers and 114 RBIs.

1998
The Mets announce GM Steve Phillips will take a paid leave of absence while
a threatened sexual-harassment lawsuit against him is resolved. Phillips
acknowledges having had an extramarital affair with the woman, but denies
having harassed her. Frank Cashen will replace Phillips on an interim basis.

The Rockies sign free agent P Brian Bohannon to a 3-year contract.

Cubs slugger Sammy Sosa is named the National League MVP. Sosa hits 66
homers and led the NL in RBIs while carrying the Cubs to the playoff.

1999
Cincinnati Reds relief P Scott Williamson is named the NL Rookie of the
Year. Williamson was not on the Reds roster at the beginning of the year,
but ended with a 12-7 record.

The Dodgers trade disgruntled OF Raul Mondesi and P Pedro Borbon to the
Blue Jays for All-Star OF Shawn Green and IF Jorge Nunez. Green said he
wanted to play in a metropolitan city with a large Jewish population,
but apparently the California native didn't include Toronto in that.

The U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution calling for Shoeless
Joe Jackson to be honored. The resolution stops short of calling for his
induction into the Hall of Fame. "It is worthy for this body to take a few
minutes to stand up for fairness and right an old wrong," said Rep. Jim
DeMint, the author of the resolution who represents Jackson's hometown of
Greenville, S.C. Jackson was eligible for the Hall of Fame until 1991 but
was never voted in either by the Baseball Writers' Association of American
or the veterans committee. In 1991, the Hall's board adopted a resolution
prohibiting players on the permanently banned list. The resolution now goes
to the Senate.

2000
Jerry Manuel is selected by the BBWAA as the American League Manager of the
Year. The White Sox skipper led his club to their first playoff appearance
in seven years despite having the 21st lowest payroll of the 30 major
league teams.

The Rockies obtain P Ron Villone from the Reds for 2 minor league players
to be named. They'll complete the trade next month by sending Justin Carter
and Jeff Tahlienti to the Reds.

2004
Jason Bay (.282, 26, 82) becomes the first Pirates player, as well as the
first Canadian, to win the National League Rookie of the Year. The 26-year-old
British Columbia native married his college girlfriend, Kristen, two days ago.

Receiving 27 of 28 first-place votes, Bobby Crosby (.239, 22, 64) wins the
American League Rookie of the Year Award. The Oakland shortstop, who is
the son of former big leaguer infielder Ed Crosby, joins Harry Byrd (1952),
Jose Canseco (1986), Mark McGwire (1987), Walt Weiss (1988) and Ben Grieve
(1998) as the sixth A's freshman to be honored by BBWAA.

2005
Joining Dean Chance, Bartolo Colon becomes the second Angels pitcher, the
first in 41 years, to win the Cy Young Award. The 32-year-old Halo hurler
from the Dominican Republic, who lead the American League with 21 victories,
is the only player named on every ballot.

In Venezuela, pitcher Ugueth Urbina is arrested on a charge of attempted
murder. Last month, a group of men allegedly wielded machetes at several
employees at his family's ranch, then poured gasoline on them in an attempt
to set them on fire. Five workers were injured, and one of them suffered
burns on the back and right arm, police said. One victim accused Urbina of
being among the attackers. Urbina's lawyer said the pitcher was sleeping
at the time and was not involved. Urbina is a free agent after playing
the last season with the Phillies. It was the second violent incident for
the Urbina family. Urbina's mother was kidnapped by drug traffickers in
September of 2004 and held for $6 million. She was rescued five months
later in a mountainous area in southern Venezuela.

2006
The Padres hire Angels pitching coach Bud Black as their new manager.

The Indians obtain 2B Josh Barfield from the Padres in exchange for INF
Kevin Kouzmanoff and P Andrew Brown.

The Athletics reach a deal with Cisco Systems Inc. to build a new ballpark
in Fremont. If approved by the city, the A's could begin playing there as
soon as 2011.

2007
More than 7,000 fans pack Straub Park to see Tampa Bay players don the club's
new look for the 2008 season which include changes in the team's name, logo
and colors. The club is now known simply as the Rays, blues will replace
green on the uniform with the jerseys sporting a bright yellow sunburst.

2008
Former Boston players Bill Lee, Mo Vaughn, Mike Greenwell, Wes Ferrell,
Frank Sullivan and Everett Scott as well as former scout George Digby and
former executive Ed Kenney Sr are inducted into the team's Hall of Fame. The
two memorable moments in franchise history, Ted Williams' homer in his last
at-bat, and Curt Schilling's performance (bloody sock) in game 6 of the 2004
ALCS, are also recognized for their special significance in Red Sox history.

The Brewers hire Willie Randolph as bench coach to work with the team's new
manager Ken Macha. The 54-year-old former Mets manager compiled a 302-253
during his 3+ years in New York before being dismissed in June.

2010
Jhonny Peralta and the Tigers come to terms on an $11.25 million two-year
contract keeping the shortstop in Detroit. The agreement solidifies the left
side of the team's infield for the next couple years with the re-signing
of third baseman Brandon Inge to a similar deal three weeks ago.

ESPN announces Jon Miller and Joe Morgan will no longer do Sunday Night
Baseball ending the pair's 21-year tenure behind the mike. Network executive
vice president Norby Williamson thanked the Hall of Famers for their
outstanding body of work, but did not name any replacements.

2011
The Orioles announce the hiring of Dan Duquette as their executive vice
president for baseball operations replacing Andy MacPhail. The 53-year-old
former Red Sox general manager (1994-2002), who inked a three-year deal with
the Birds, takes over a franchise that has suffered through 14 consecutive
losing seasons.

