Nov 17

1903
Chicago Cubs SS Joe Tinker tells an interviewer that it is "impossible to
fix" a ML baseball game.

1913
Wilbert Robinson is named as the Dodgers' new manager. 'Uncle Robbie'
will compile a 1375-1341 (.506) record during his 18-year tenure as the
Brooklyn skipper.

Former star P Rube Waddell is picked up in St. Louis, wandering the streets
and suffering from consumption.

1927
A group led by Alva Bradley and John Sherwin buys the Indians.

1933
Pittsburgh sends Alan Comorosky and Tony Piet to Cincinnati in exchange
for P Red Lucas and Wally Roettger. As a pitcher, Lucas will feast on the
Reds over the rest of his career, going 14-0 against them. Piet hit .323
for the season, but was in the doghouse over a contract dispute and never
started a game after July.

1940
Jimmy Wilson gets his reward for managing the woeful Phillies in the 1930s
and for his late-season role with the Reds. He becomes manager of the Cubs
replacing Gabby Hartnett.

1947
In a major deal that helps the Red Sox, Boston ships Roy Partee, Jim Wilson,
Al Widmar, Eddie Pellagrini, Pete Layden and Joe Ostrowski and $310,000
to the Browns for Jack Kramer and Vern Stephens. Stephens will lead the AL
in RBIs in 2 of the next 3 seasons, collecting 430 RBIs in three years. No
player will match that for the next fifty years.

The Pirates acquire 1B Johnny Hopp and 2B Danny Murtaugh from the Braves
for C Bill Salkeld, P Al Lyons and OF Jim Russell.

1953
The St. Louis Browns name officially becomes the Baltimore Baseball Club
Inc. The Baltimore franchise board officially changes its name to the
"Orioles."

1954
The Cubs trade Ralph Kiner to the Indians for $60,000 plus OF Gale Wade
and P Sam Jones. Kiner's HR total fell to 22 in 1954, though he hit .285.

1959
William Shea of the Continental League shows sketches of the proposed
stadium in New York City with its transparent retractable roof.

Giants slugger Willie McCovey is the NL Rookie of the Year. McCovey gets
all 24 votes to make him the 2nd Giant in a row to win the award unanimously.

1960
Elvin Quesada, a native of the District of Columbia and WW II hero, is
awarded the American League expansion team which will play in Washington. The
new owner of the Senators is presently the head of the Federal Aviation
Administration.

After leading the the league with a .325 average, 30-year-old Pirates
shortstop Dick Groat is selected as the National League's Most Valuable
Player, with Don Hoak, his partner on the left side of the Buc's infield,
being the runner up to the award. Another teammate, right-fielder Roberto
Clemente, is very disappointed being named eighth on the ballot.

Hank Greenberg drops out of the bidding to run the new AL franchise in
Los Angeles.

1964
The Mets sign Yogi Berra to a two-year contract as a player-coach. The
recently fired Yankee manager will collect two hits in his scant nine
National League at-bats.

1965
Retired Air Force Lieutenant-General William D. Eckert is unanimously
elected commissioner of baseball. Ford Frick leaves office after 14 years.

1971
Vida Blue becomes the youngest player ever to win the MVP award. The
22-year-old A's southpaw is only the fourth hurler to capture both the Cy
Young Award and the MVP in the same season.

1975
The Dodgers trade OFs Jimmy Wynn and Tom Paciorek, and INFs Lee Lacy and
Jerry Royster to the Braves for OF Dusty Baker and 1B Ed Goodson.

The Rangers trade 7-time 20-game winner Ferguson Jenkins to the Red Sox
for OF Juan Beniquez, 2 Ps and cash.

1976
Receiving 18 of the 24 first place votes, Yankee catcher Thurman Munson
(.302, 17, 105) easily outdistances Kansas City third baseman George Brett
to become the American League's MVP. The team's captain is the first Bronx
Bomber to be selected as the league's Most Valuable Player and the first
to be named Rookie of the Year (1970).

1977
Minnesota's Rod Carew, who hit .331, wins the AL MVP Award. This is the
first year in the past 5 that Carew did not win the batting title.

1979
On a flight to Austin, TX, Daniel Okrent sketches out the first draft of
rules for what would become Rotisserie League Baseball. Had the friends
he was seeing not ignored these rules, the Rotisserie League would have
been called Pit League, after the Austin barbecue joint where Okrent first
unveiled them. Two weeks later in New York, he pitches the idea to a more
receptive group with whom Okrent lunched monthly at La Rotisserie Francaise.

1982
Dale Murphy wins the NL MVP Award, becoming the first Braves player to be
so honored since Hank Aaron in 1957. The centerfielder hit .281 with 36 HRs,
109 RBIs, 113 runs and 23 stolen bases. Murphy will win the award again next
season becoming only the fourth player to be honored in consecutive seasons.

1983
Kansas City Royals teammates Willie Wilson, Willie Aikens, and Jerry Martin,
who, along with former teammate Vida Blue, had pleaded guilty to attempting
to purchase cocaine, are each sentenced to 3 months in prison.

1987
George Bell becomes the first Blue Jays ever to win the AL MVP Award,
edging Detroit's Alan Trammell 332-311. Bell hit .308 last season with 47
homeruns and a league-leading 134 RBIs.

1989
Nick Esasky, who became one of the major leagues' most coveted free agents
after hitting .277 with 30 HRs and 108 RBIs for the Red Sox last season, signs
a 3-year contract with the Atlanta Braves. Esasky lives in Marietta, Georgia.

1992
Baseball holds the expansion draft to stock the rosters of the NL's two new
teams, the Florida Marlins and Colorado Rockies. A total of 72 players are
chosen. P David Nied is the 1st pick of the Rockies, while OF Nigel Wilson
is selected 1st by the Marlins. (Nied was 3-0 for Atlanta last season and
will pitch the first regular-season game in Rockies history, losing to the
Mets and Dwight Gooden at Shea Stadium, 3-0.) The Fish take Jose Martinez
with #2, while the Rocks pick vet Charlie Hayes. The best picks for Florida
are #4 Trevor Hoffman who is eventually packaged for Gary Sheffield, #11
Jeff Conine who will hit 81 homers in 4 years, and #18 Cris Carpenter who
is later dealt to Texas for Robb Nen. As for Colorado, they will find gold
with #6 Eric Young, #10 Joe Girardi, #16 Vinny Castilla and #18 Armando
Reynoso. Picks #13 and #14 are good ones - Andy Ashby, Brad Ausmus and Doug
Bochtler - but they'll all go to the Padres in 1993 in an ill-fated deal
for pricey vet pitchers Bruce Hurst and Greg Harris.

The Reds trade P Norm Charlton to the Mariners in exchange for OF Kevin
Mitchell.

The Cubs trade SS Alex Arias and 3B Gary Scott to the Marlins for P Greg
Hibbard.

The Athletics trade SS Walt Weiss to the Marlins for C Eric Helfand and a
player to be named.

The Rockies make their first trade a good one, sending OF Kevin Reimer
to the Brewers for OF Dante Bichette. Bichette hit .287 for Milwaukee,
but just .246 in the 2nd half of the year.

The Dodgers trade P Rudy Seanez to the Rockies in exchange for Jody Reed.

1993
The Braves trade 1B Brian Hunter to the Pirates in exchange for a player
to be named.

1997
The Diamondbacks sign free agent SS Jay Bell to a 5-year contract.

The Braves sign free agent SS Walt Weiss to a 3-year contract.

1998
The Pirates sign free agent INF Mike Benjamin to a 2-year contract.

1999
Atlanta Braves 3B Chipper Jones is named the NL Most Valuable Player.

The Angels hire Mike Scioscia as their new manager.

The Rockies trade P Curtis Leskanic to the Brewers in exchange for P
Mike Myers.

The Orioles sign free agent P Mike Trombley to a 3-year contract.

2000
Pittsburgh catcher Jason Kendall signs the richest deal in Pirates'
history. The $60 million six-year contract extension, which includes a $4
million signing bonus, starts with a base salary of $6 million in 2002 and
peaks at $13 million in 2007.

The Rangers send Ps Ryan Cullen and Aaron Harang to the A's for 2B Randy
Velarde.

The Phillies sign free agent P Jose Mesa to a 2-year contract worth $3.4
million.

2002
After dropping the first three contests in Japan, the American Major League
team win their fourth consecutive game beating the Japanese stars, 4-2. The
victory gives the United States, which hasn't lost a series to its Asian hosts
since 1990, its fifth straight winning tour in the Land of the Rising Sun.

2003
Texas SS Alex Rodriguez wins the AL MVP award, edging out Carlos Delgado of
Toronto. Rodriguez joins Andre Dawson as the only players from a last-place
team to win the honor.

2004
After being wined and dined by Tiger legend Al Kaline and owner Peter
Ilitch, free agent Troy Percival signs a two-year $12 million deal surprising
everyone, including his agent, by announcing he will pitch for Detroit next
season. Before the preliminary meeting in the Motor City, the former Angels'
closer had been scheduled to meet with the Indians and Cubs later in the week.

2005
Free agent P Scott Eyre signs a 3-year deal with the Cubs.

MLB owners vote unanimously to approve a toughened steroids policy. The
new standards call for a 50-game suspension for a 1st offense, 100 games
for a 2nd offense and a lifetime ban for a 3rd offense.

2006
Filling the final managerial opening in the big leagues, Bob Geren is
hired by A's to pilot the defending AL West champions. The rookie skipper,
a veteran minor league manager, replaces Ken Macha who was dismissed after
Oakland was defeated in the ALCS.

Frank Thomas agrees to a $18.12 million two-year deal to join the Blue
Jays. After spending 16 years with the White Sox, the 38-year-old designated
hitter had a comeback season with the A's last season leading the club into
the playoffs batting .270 with 39 homers and driving in 114 runs.

The Athletics hire bench coach Bob Geren as their new manager, replacing
Ken Macha.

The Phillies sign free agent INF Wes Helms to a 2-year contract.

The Mets sign free agent INF Damion Easley to a contract.

2008 Despite nursing a sore elbow during the season, Albert Pujols (.357,
37, 116) wins his second Most Valuable Player award of his eight-year major
league career. The 28-year-old All-Star first baseman of the fourth-place
Cardinals, the only player listed on every ballot, receives 18 of the 32
first-place votes cast by the BBWAA to outpoint runner-up Ryan Howard of
the World Champions Phillies, 369-308.

Replacing the discontinued annual exhibition game between major league
teams, a new Hall of Fame Classic will be played in Cooperstown featuring
the game's legends and old-timers. The Hall of Fame announces the contest
will be played on Fathers Day (June 21) and will be part of a weekend of
activities and programs, which will include a skills clinic, a hitting
contest and autograph sessions.

2009
With 25 of the 28 first-place votes cast by the writers, Zack Greinke (16-8,
2.16) easily outdistances Seattle's Felix Hernandez to win the American
League Cy Young Award. The Royals right-hander will have another big day
this Saturday when he marries his high school sweetheart Emily Kuchar,
a former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader.

2010
In the second trade of the general managers meetings, the A's trade Rajai
Davis to the Blue Jays for a pair of right-handed minor leaguers, Trystan
Magnuson and Daniel Farquhar. Last week, Oakland acquired outfielder David
DeJesus from the Royals, making their former fleet outfielder expendable.

After being the runner-up five times, Ron Gardenhire is finally named the
American League's Manager of the Year. The Twins skipper, the only AL field
boss listed on all 28 ballots, led his team to its sixth Central Division
title in nine seasons.

Bud Black beats Cininnati skipper Dusty Baker by one point for the National
League Manager of the Year honors. The Padres manager kept his underdog
team in the playoff race until the last day of the season when they were
knocked out of contention by San Francisco, the eventual World Champions.

The White House announces Stan Musial will be given the Presidential Medal
of Freedom, an award in which the honorees are selected by the sitting
president. The Cardinals' legend, who benefitted from local grass-root efforts
on his behalf, joins major leaguers Hank Aaron, Moe Berg, Jackie Robinson,
Roberto Clemente and Ted Williams as a recipient of the most prestigious
honor given to a United States civilian.

2011
Clayton Kershaw is named by the BBWAA as the National League's Cy Young
Award recipient, easily outpointing Philadelphia's Roy Halladay who had won
the prestigious pitching prize last year. The 23-year-old southpaw earned
the NL's triple crown by posting a 2.28 ERA, striking out 248 opponents,
and notching the most victories in the circuit, along with Arizona's Ian
Kennedy, with a record of 21-5.

The long-delayed sale of the Astros from Drayton McLane to Jim Crane is
unanimously approved by the baseball owners. The deal was dependent on the
new owner's acceptance of the franchise being switch from the NL Central
to the AL West in 2013, a move that reportedly lowered the sale price from
$680 million to $615 million.

2014
The Braves trade Gold Glove outfielder Jayson Heyward and setup man Jordan
Walden to the Cardinals for right-handers Shelby Miller and 22-year-old minor
leaguer Tyrell Jenkins. The move appears to be the start of a rebuilding
period for Atlanta under the team's new general manager John Hart.

