Nov 29

1910
It's the Cuban's turn today as Cuban ace Jose Mendez shuts out the Tigers,
3-0. On steal attempts, Ty Cobb is thrown out three times by Bruce Petway,
who played last year for the Chicago Leland Giants, and Gervasio "Strike"
Gonzales. On his last attempt, Cobb argues that the bag is three inches too
far. When measured, Cobb is proved correct, but is still out stealing. A
frustrated Cobb will cut short the tour and return to the U.S. The Tigers
will end their Cuban swing at 7-4 with a tie. This is a reversal of last
year's 4-8 record, when they played the Cuban teams without Cobb and Sam
Crawford. The champion A's also played in Havana at the same time, finishing
with a 4-6 record.

1916
In Kansas City, Walter Johnson and Grover Cleveland Alexander face each
other for the first time. The exhibition game between the two stars features
Zach Wheat, Casey Stengel, Max Carey, Hal Chase and others. The "Johnsons"
prevail over the "Alexanders", 3-2.

1926
Tris Speaker resigns as Indians manager. Stories of a thrown game and betting
on games by Ty Cobb and Speaker gain momentum when Judge Kenesaw Mountain
Landis holds a secret hearing with the 2 stars and former P-OF Joe Wood. The
story and testimony will not be released until December 21st. Former Tigers P
Dutch Leonard wrote to Harry Heilmann that he had turned over letters written
to him by Joe Wood and Ty Cobb to AL president Ban Johnson implicating Wood
and Cobb in betting on a Tiger-Cleveland game played in Detroit, September
25, 1919. He charged that Cobb and Speaker conspired to let Detroit win
to help them gain 3rd-place money. At a secret meeting of AL directors,
it was decided to let Cobb and Speaker resign with no publicity. But,
as rumors spread, Judge Landis takes charge of the matter and holds the
hearings, at which Leonard refuses to appear. Cobb and Wood admit to the
letters, but say it was a horse racing bet, and contend Leonard is angry
for having been released to the Pacific Coast League by Cobb. Speaker, not
named in the letters, denies everything. Public sympathy is with the stars,
but the matter will remain unresolved until January of next year.

1932
The New York Giants release pitchers Waite Hoyt and Clarence Mitchell.

1936
Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis declares Lee Handley and Johnny Peacock of
the Cincinnati Reds free agents. They had been covered up on minor league
teams by the Reds.

1939
Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis fines Brooklyn, Detroit and the St. Louis
farm club, Columbus, for manipulating player contracts. He frees 7 farm hands.

1957
Mayor Robert Wagner forms a 4-member committee to find a replacement for
the Dodgers and Giants in New York City.

1962
ML officials and player representatives agree to return to a single All-Star
Game in 1963. The players' pension fund will receive 95 percent of the one
game's proceeds (rather than 60 percent of the 2 games).

After 61 years, the American Association (AAA) folds, with some of the
franchises being absorbed by the International League and the Pacific Coast
League. The PCL adds the Dallas-Fort Worth, TX; Denver, CO and Oklahoma City,
OK Clubs and drops the Vancouver, BC club. The International League adds
the Indianapolis, IN and Little Rock, AR clubs. As a result, both leagues
become ten club leagues.

1964
The Red Sox trade first baseman Dick Stuart to the Phillies for pitcher
Dennis Bennett.

1965
The Yankees trade Phil Linz to the Phillies for infielder Ruben Amaro. Linz'
BA had decline in each of past 5 seasons. Over the next three seasons, the
26-year-old utility player, who became infamous for playing his harmonica
last season, will only appear in 165 games, and will retire after spending
seven years in the major leagues.

1966
The Dodgers trade two-time batting champ Tommy Davis and outfielder Derrell
Griffith to the Mets for outfielder Jim Hickman and infielder Ron Hunt.

The Yankees trade 3B Clete Boyer to the Braves for OF Bill Robinson and
39-year-old P Chi Chi Olivo.

A circuit court jury in Chicago awards Jim Brewer $100,000 in damages
stemming from his 1960 on-field fight with Billy Martin.

1967
The White Sox reacquire SS Luis Aparicio, with OF Russ Snyder and 1B/OF
John Matias, from Baltimore for Ps Bruce Howard and Roger Nelson and INF
Don Buford.

The Indians trade OF Chuck Hinton to the Angels for OF Jose Cardenal.

1971
The Giants trade Gaylord Perry to the Indians in exchange for all-Star
pitcher "Sudden" Sam McDowell. The former San Francisco right-hander will
finish his Hall of Fame career with 314 victories, and 'Sudden Sam', due
to personal reasons, will post an 8-17 record for three different teams
before retiring after the 1975 season.

In a trade now considered one of the worst in baseball history, the Astros,
in a winter meeting deal, send Joe Morgan, Ed Armbrister, Jack Billingham,
Cesar Geronimo and Denis Menke to the Reds for Tommy Helms, Lee May and Jimmy
Stewart. In addition to giving away Cesar Geronimo, the regular center fielder
for his new team, and Jack Billingham, who becomes a top-of-the-rotation
starter for Cincinnati, Houston loses nine-year veteran and future Hall of
Famer Joe Morgan because skipper Harry Walker, not known for his tolerance,
labeled the 29-year-old second baseman a trouble maker.

Falling short against Baltimore in the playoffs, the A's bolster their
pitching obtaining starting pitcher Ken Holtzman from the Cubs in exchange
for center fielder Rick Monday. After only nine wins with Chicago last
season, the southpaw rebounds with a 19-11 record and becomes a mainstay
in Oakland's rotation behind Vida Blue and Catfish Hunter.

1975
Two Oriole standouts, with a combined total of 24 Gold Glove Awards, are
each honored for the last time. Brooks Robinson and Paul Blair are the two
making swan songs on TSN's fielding team, while outfielders Garry Maddox
and Fred Lynn each win the award for the first time.

1976
The Yankees sign free-agent Reggie Jackson to a five-year $3.5 million
dollar contract. During Mr. October's tenure, the Bronx Bombers will win
four divisions, three pennants and two World Series.

1979
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn lets Billy Martin off with a warning, following
the October 23rd incident.

1990
A consortium of Canadian investors led by Expos president Claud Brochu
agrees to buy the club from Charles Bronfman for a reported $85 million,
assuring that the team will remain in Montreal.

1992
Marge Schott is quoted in today's NY Times as saying that Adolph Hitler was
initially good for Germany, that her references to "niggers" was in jest,
and she couldn't understand why the word "Jap" was offensive. The ML will
appoint a 4-man committee to investigate Schott.

1994
The Marlins trade OF Carl Everett to the Mets in exchange for 2B Quilvio
Veras.

1995
Charlie Smith, the player traded to the Yankees from the Cardinals for Roger
Maris in 1967, dies at age 57. During his two years with the Bronx Bombers,
the third baseman hit only .224.

The Dodgers trade 2B Miguel Cairo and 3B Willis Otanez to the Mariners in
exchange for 3B Mike Blowers.

2000
The Phillies sign free agent P Rheal Cormier to a 3-year contract worth
$2.9 million.

2002
The Reds and Padres reach an agreement to trade Ken Griffey Jr for Phil
Nevin, but Nevin, with a no-trade clause in his contract, nixes the deal. He
says he would only agree to a trade to a West Coast team that trains in
Arizona. Griffey tore a tendon in his knee during the first week, setting
up another season limited by leg injuries. He also pulled a hamstring and
strained hip muscles, limiting him to 70 games, a .264 average, 8 homers
and 23 RBIs. In a week, the White Sox will turn down an offer of Griffey
for Magglio Ordonez.

2005
The Phillies sign free agent INF Abraham Nunez to a 2-year contract.

2006
The Brewers sign free agent INF Craig Counsell to a 2-year deal.

2007
HBO Films announces its plan to make a movie out of "Game of Shadows," the
book about Barry Bonds' alleged steroid use and the subsequent investigation
by the federal government. The authors, San Francisco Chronicle reporters
Lance William and Mark Fainaru-Wada, based much of their content on leaked
secret grand jury testimony.

With fan favorites Jimmy Rollins and Cole Hamels modeling the team's new
'old' look, the Phillies unveil their alternate home uniform which will
be worn during all home day-games next season. The uniforms, which do not
feature the familiar red pinstripes, are styled similarly to the one the
club wore in the 1940s.

2010
The Rangers sign free agent Yorvit Torrealba to a two-year deal worth $6.25
million. The acquisition of the veteran catcher, who is slated to be the
team's starting backstop, fills the potential void created by the possible
retirement of Bengie Molina.

2011
The Royals have agreed to a one-year contract with right-handed reliever
Jonathan Broxton. The former Dodgers closer, who missed most of last season
due to bone spurs in his pitching elbow, will be used out of the bullpen
in a setup role for last-inning specialist Joakim Soria.

