Nov 30

1926
Bill Carrigan, popular Red Sox manager who won pennants in 1915 and 1916,
is drafted out of retirement to resurrect the cellar-dwellers.

1931
George Gibson comes out of retirement to manage Pittsburgh. Ten years
earlier he had led the Pirates to 3 first-division finishes.

1932
The Chicago Cubs get Babe Herman from the Cincinnati Reds for Rollie Hemsley
and 3 others.

1942
Bill Terry resigns from his job as supervisor of the Giants minor league
system to go into private business. The Giants, with 9 minor league teams
at the start of 1942, are down to two:  Jersey City and Ft. Smith, Arkansas.

1948
Player-manager Lou Boudreau is selected the AL MVP. Boudreau had almost
been traded to the Browns earlier in the year, but protests by fans kept
Lou in Cleveland. After the WS win, owner Bill Veeck commented, "Sometimes
the best trades are the ones you never make." According to historian Pete
Palmer, this year Boudreau became the last AL player in the 20th century
to hit over .400 on the road. Coincidentally, Stan Musial matched that feat
in the NL this year.

1952
On a local TV program, Brooklyn Dodger Jackie Robinson charges that the
New York Yankee management is racist for its failure to bring up a black
player. George Weiss of the Yanks denies the allegations. Elston Howard
will become the first black ballplayer in the Bronx in 1955, nine years
after Robinson broke the color barrier with the Dodgers.

1953
The player reps reject Commissioner Ford Frick's plan for a conference on
their pension after he bars their attorney's presence.

The Cubs sell C Carl Sawatski to the White Sox.

1958
Italian baseball commissioner Prince Borghese visits the U.S. to seek aid
in organizing Italian teams.

1959
The Orioles trade Billy Loes and Billy O'Dell to the Giants for P Gordon
Jones, OF Jackie Brandt and C Roger McCardell. O'Dell will win 56 games
for the Giants.

The Cards send popular SS Don Blasingame to the Giants for INF Daryl Spencer
and Leon Wagner.

1961
Billy Williams (.278, 25, 86) is selected as the National League Rookie
of the Year. The Cubs outfielder is named on ten of the 16 ballots cast
by the BBWWA with the runner up, Braves catcher Joe Torre, receiving five
votes from the writers.

The Giants acquire Ps Don Larsen and Billy Pierce from the White Sox for
Ps Eddie Fisher, Dom Zanni, and Verle Tiefenthaler and 1B Bob Farley. The
swap is a steal for the Giants, one of their best trades since moving to
California. Pierce, another Chicago favorite, will win 16, while Larsen
will win 5 and save 11 for the pennant winners.

1965
The Red Sox trade Ed Bressoud to the Mets for Joe Christopher. Bressoud will
be the only former New York Giant to play for the Mets besides Willie Mays,
who will close out his years there.

1967
The Yankees purchase Gene Michael from the LA Dodgers.

The Cubs give up on P Ray Culp and ship him to the Red Sox for minor leaguer
Rudy Schlesinger and cash. A steal for the Sox, Culp will develop a palm
ball and win 64 games for them in the next 4 seasons. Chicago also sends
P Paul Popovich to the Dodgers in a deal to reacquire Lou Johnson.

1970
The Cubs trade veteran knuckleballer Hoyt Wilhelm to the Braves for minor
league first baseman Hal Breedan. The future Hall of Fame relief pitcher will
be release in June by Atlanta, but will finish the season with the Dodgers.

The White Sox trade OF Ken Berry to the Angels for OF Jay Johnstone in
a 6-player deal. The White Sox also make a rare trade with the Cubs when
they send OF Jose Ortiz and INF Ossie Blanco to the North side for Ps Pat
Jacquez and Dave Lemonds.

1971
The Twins trade SS Leo Cardenas to the Angels for P Dave LaRoche.

1972
The Reds obtain outfielder Richie Scheinblum and pitcher Roger Nelson from
the Royals for Hal McRae.

Twelve transactions, involving 36 players, take place. Among those sent
to new clubs are OF Larry Hisle (to the Twins), 2B Dave Johnson (Braves),
OF Del Unser (Phils), Oscar Gamble (Indians), Cesar Tovar (Phils) and OF
Hal McRae and P Wayne Simpson (Royals).

1977
Joining his fifth team this year, Dave Kingman signs as a free agent with
the Cubs. Sky King, put on waivers in September by the Padres after a
mid-season trade with the Mets, was selected by the Angels who dealt the
much-traveled slugger to the Yankees a week later.

1981
Yankees P Dave Righetti (8-4, 2.06) wins the AL Rookie of the Year Award.

1988
The Royals sign veteran catcher Bob Boone, who hit a career-high .295
last season.

1992
The Reds sign free agent P John Smiley to a 4-year contract.

1994
The Brewers trade P Doug Henry to the Mets in exchange for Javier Gonzales
and INF Fernando Vina. Vina will play 140 games at 2B and hit .283 while
Henry will be 2-8 with the Mets.

1995
The Dodgers sign free agent SS Greg Gagne.

1998
The Diamondbacks sign free agent P Randy Johnson to a 4-year contract.

1999
Members of the umpires association vote 57-35 to form a new union, with 1
vote voided because the umpire signed his ballot. The NLRB will certify the
election results in 7 days, if there are no objections. But, Jerry Crawford,
the president of the old union, says objections are likely to be filed.

Braves minor leaguer Roger Blanco is killed by robbers in Ctia La Mar,
Venezuela. Blanco, 30, was traded to the Braves in 1996 for Mark Whiten.

Pete Rose launches a new web site, allowing fans to add their names to a
petition to vote for his reinstatement. He was banned from the game for
gambling in August of 1989.

2000
Free agent Mike Mussina inks an $88.5 million six-year contract with the
Yankees. Mussina says a deciding factor was a call from Joe Torre. The
ten-year veteran compiled a 147-81 record with a 3.53 ERA as an Oriole hurler.

2001
Unsure of their future, Montreal signs a one-year lease to play their home
games for the 2002 season at Olympic Stadium. Due to the threat of being
eliminated because of the proposed contraction of major league teams,
the agreement gives the Expos the right to unilaterally cancel the contract.

The major league's plan to contract by two teams next season is put into
jeopardy by Minnesota courts. The state's Supreme Court refuses to grant the
request for a speedy review of the appeal of the injunction which forces
the Twins to play in 2001, and the appellate court sets the hearing for
December 27, a date many believe is too late to make the elimination of
two teams a reality.

Arizona P Curt Schilling wins the 2001 Hutch Award, given each year by
Seattle's Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center to a player who displays
"honor, courage & dedication to baseball while overcoming adversity in
their personal or professional lives."

2004
In an interview on the Howard Stern show, Anna Benson, pin-up star wife of
Mets pitcher Kris Benson, says that if she ever caught her husband cheating
on her she would f*ck the whole Mets team, including coaches, bat boys and
groundskeepers. When Stern mentions the rumor that Kris was traded by the
Pirates because Anna was a pain in the ass, she does not deny the stories. The
former stripper also takes credit for negotiating Kris' Mets contract.

2005
The Red Sox petition a judge to keep the ball used to make the last out of the
2004 World Series. Former first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz, who kept the ball
after it was thrown by closer Keith Foulke, loaned the sensational sphere
to the club, but continues to claim ownership of the historic horsehide
which made the team World Champions for the first time in 86 years.

The Yankees sign free agent C Kelly Stinnett to a contract.

The Phillies sign free agent P Julio Santana to a contract.

2007
The Rays sign reliever Troy Percival (3-0, 1.80) to an $8 million two-year
deal. The 38-year right-hander, who came out of retirement last season to
make 34 appearances for the Cardinals, is a major upgrade to Tampa Bay's
beleaguered bullpen.

Not allowing his agent Scott Boras to broker the best free-agent deal
available, Kenny Rogers, representing himself in contract negotiations,
signs an $8 million one-year deal to return to the Tigers for a third
season. The 43-year-old southpaw posted a 3-4 record with a 4.43 ERA in a
2007 injury-shortened season, after leading Detroit to a World Series the
previous year.

The Mets trade highly touted prospect Lastings Milledge to the Nationals in
exchange for fly chaser Ryan Church and catcher Brian Schneider. Although
the transaction helps New York fill its immediate needs behind the plate
and in the outfield, the trade appears to favor Washington due to Milledge's
perceived potential.

2009
The Angels vote to give a full postseason share to the estate of Nick
Adenhart, the rookie pitcher who died in a fatal car accident a few hours
after winning his first start of the season in April. The Halos, who lost
the ALCS to the Yankees, made an additional $138,039 due to their playoff
performance.

Sports Illustrated announces Derek Jeter as its Sportsman of the Year, making
the 'Captain' the first Yankee to be honored by the magazine. The other
baseball recipients to win the award, given annually since SI's inception
in 1954, include Johnny Podres (Dodgers - 1955), Stan Musial (Cardinals -
1957), Sandy Koufax (Dodgers - 1965), Tom Seaver (Mets - 1969), Pete Rose
(Reds - 1975), Orel Hershiser (Dodgers - 1988), Cal Ripken Jr (Orioles -
1995), Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa (Cubs, Cardinals - 1998), Randy Johnson
and Curt Schilling (Diamondbacks - 2001) and the entire Red Sox team (2004).

The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center names Mark Teahen as the 2009
Hutch Award recipient for best exemplifing the honor, courage and dedication
of former major leaguer and skipper Fred Hutchinson, who died from cancer
in 1964. The 28-year-old infielder/outfieder, recently traded to the White
Sox from the Royals, was a key spokesman and fundraiser for the Kansas City
YMCA Challenger Baseball program, a division of Little League that provides
children with physical or mental challenges the opportunity to play ball
on specially designed diamonds.

TBS spokesman Jeff Pomeroy confirms Chip Caray, who just completed his third
season as the lead play-by-play announcer, and the network have decided to
part ways. The son of the beloved late Braves broadcaster Skip Caray and
the grandson of the legendary play-by-play announcer Harry Caray, had been
heavily criticized for his postseason work in which he miscalled plays,
cited misinformation and for being very subjective while calling the game.

2010
The Dodgers sign free agent Juan Uribe to a three-year $21 million deal to
play second base for the team. The enthusiastic and versatile 31-year-old
Dominican infielder also gives new manager Don Mattingly more options at
shortstop and third base.

Troy Tulowski and the Rockies agree to a seven-year extension that guarantees
the All-Star infielder $157.75 million until 2020. The 26-year-old Gold
Glove shortstop's contract is now the eighth richest in baseball history.

2012
Mets third baseman David Wright agrees to an eight-year $138 million contract,
the richest deal in franchise history. The 29-year-old six-time All-Star
is the team's all-time leader in hits, doubles, extra-base hits, walks,
RBIs and runs scored.

