Oct 15

1903
With Pirates owner Dreyfuss putting his club's $6,699.56 gate receipts
into the players' pool, the 16 Pirates receive $1,316 each, more than the
victorious Boston players' $1,182. Deacon Phillippe receives a bonus and
10 shares of stock in the Pirates for his heroic efforts.

1910
On the last day of the season, St. Louis manager Jack O'Connor is fired
by Browns president Hedges for his role in the Lajoie batting-title
travesty. Also fired is coach Harry Howell for allegedly delivering an
offer to the official scorer E.V. Parrish to change his error call to a hit.

1911
In an exhibition game in New York, Honus Wagner, Walter Johnson, Gabby Street
and other white major leaguers take on the Lincoln Giants, a star-studded
black team featuring Pop Lloyd, Dick McClelland and Louis Santop. Johnson
K's 14 to give the white all-stars a 5-3 win.

1912
In game 7 on a cold day in Boston, the Giants catch up with Joe Wood's
smoke, teeing off for 6 runs on 7 hits before the 32,694 fans have settled
down. Jeff Tesreau wobbles to an 11-4 win and the Series is tied at 3
all. The only Boston bright spot is Tris Speaker's unassisted double play
in the 9th, the only one by an outfielder in WS play. Before the game,
Red Sox management release the Royal Rooters' block of tickets to the
general public, and when the Rooters march on to the field shortly before
game time, they find "their" seats taken. The Rooters refuse to leave the
field and the club resorts to using mounted policemen to herd them behind
the left-field bleacher rail or out of the park. When the Red Sox win the
coin flip after today's game to determine the site for the deciding match,
the upset Royal Rooters boycott the finale, lowering the attendance.

The Browns take game 1 of the St. Louis City series, 3-1, from the Cards. The
Cardinals will win the series, 4 games to 3.

1917
After Red Faber and Rube Benton match 3 scoreless innings, in game 6,
Eddie Collins leads off the 4th and hits a grounder to Heinie Zimmerman
at 3B. Collins takes 2nd when the throw gets past 1B Walter Holke. Joe
Jackson's fly to RF is dropped by Dave Robertson, and Collins goes to
3B. When Happy Felsch hits one back to the pitcher, Collins breaks for
home. Benton throws to 3B to catch Collins, and C Bill Rariden comes up the
line. But with Zimmerman in pursuit Collins keeps running and slides home
safely. Zimmerman will be blamed for chasing the runner, but nobody was
covering home plate. The Giants come back with two runs on Buck Herzog's
triple in the 4th, but Faber wins his 3rd of the Series, 4-2. The winners
earn $3,669.32 each; the losers $2,442.21. One-fourth of each team's share,
about $4,000, is divided equally among the clubs in each league. A letter
signed by 24 members of the White Sox and manager Pants Rowland contains
complaints concerning not receiving their full winner share after beating
the New York Giants. The written request, which will be discovered as a
tattered document more than 40 years later in boxes stored at the Hall of
Fame library, may explain the 'Black Sox' motivation for fixing the Fall
Classic two years later.

1923
After Babe Ruth's first-inning HR, the Giants peck away at Herb Pennock
for 4 runs and take a 4-1 lead into the 8th. With one out, Art Nehf loads
the bases on 2 singles and a walk, then walks in a run. Reliever Rosy Ryan
forces in another run with a walk to Joe Dugan. Ruth strikes out, but Bob
Meusel raps a single that scores the go-ahead runs. Sam Jones holds off the
Giants, and the Yankees have their first World Championship with a 6-4 win.

1925
A steady downpour yesterday and today has left the field a muddy mess as the
7th game is played in the rainiest conditions ever. It's a short day for
Vic Aldridge:  3 walks and 2 hits, and he's out of there with one out in
the first. Walter Johnson takes a 4-0 lead to the mound. The Bucs clobber
him for 15 hits, good for 24 total bases. Max Carey's 4 for 5 gives him
a Series-high .458. The Senators make the most of 7 hits, scoring 7 runs,
including Roger Peckinpaugh's HR, the 12th of the Series, a WS record. Johnson
would have fared better but for 2 more errors by SS Peckinpaugh, the MVP's
7th and 8th, still the WS record for any position. The Senators made only one
other error. Ray Kremer picks up his 2nd win with a 4-inning relief effort,
as the Senators lose, 9-7. Kiki Cuyler's bases-loaded double in the eighth
inning proves to be the difference. The Series breaks all financial records,
grossing almost $1.2 million. Winning shares are $5,332.72; losing shares
$3,734.60. The Pirates become the first team to win a World Series after
being down three games to one. When the Senators arrive in Washington, a
telegram is waiting from AL president Ban Johnson, who boycotted the series
again because of his feud with Landis. In a veiled criticism of Bucky Harris'
decision to keep Walter Johnson in the game, the Ban Johnson wire reads:
"This I admire. Lost the Series for sentimental reasons. This should never
occur in a world series." Bucky Harris calls the words, "gratuitous."

Vernon pitcher Clyde Barfoot pitches 15 innings in a PCL victory over Los
Angeles. Barfoot's 2nd homer of the game wins it, 6-5. Barfoot will win 25
games this year and 314 in his minor league career. His ML career mark will
be 8-10.

1928
Walter Johnson signs a 3-year contract to manage the Senators, Griffith
having secured his release from the 2nd year of his contract to manage
Newark. Tris Speaker will take over as Newark's manager.

1931
Sportswriter Fred Lieb leads an all-star squad on a barnstorming trip to
Hawaii and Japan. Among those aboard ship are Lou Gehrig, Frank Frisch,
Rabbit Maranville, Willie Kamm, Al Simmons, Lefty O'Doul, Mickey Cochrane
and Lefty Grove.

1936
Cincinnati rewards Chuck Dressen with a new managerial contract.

1937
Rather than accept any trade offers, the Yankees release Tony Lazzeri and
allow him to make his own deal. He later signs as a player-coach with the
Chicago Cubs.

1945
Attendance in the ML was 10.28 million, breaking the 1940 record. The Tigers
led with 1.28 million. The Dodgers, Giants and Cubs also drew a million.

1946
Enos Slaughter sprints all the way from 1B and slides into home with the
winning run in the 8th inning on Harry Walker's double, as the Cardinals
edge the Boston Red Sox, 4-3, giving St. Louis the WS 4 games to 3.
The play surprises everyone including cut-off man shortstop Johnny Pesky who
hesitates, as legend has it, throwing the ball home. Harry Brecheen wins
3 games for the Cardinals, including games 6 and 7, the only pitcher ever
to win those. Billed as the duel between the 2 best hitters in baseball,
the Series sees Stan Musial go 6 for 27 and Ted Williams 5 for 25. With the
Series held in two small ballparks and the broadcast fees now aimed at a
player pension fund, the Cardinal share of $3,748 and the Red Sox portion
of $2,140 is the smallest Series payoff since 1918.

1949
Dodgers GM Branch Rickey sells P Paul Minner and 1B Preston Ward to the
Cubs for $100,000. He also offers the Brooklyn Bridge for another $100,000.

1951
Minor league executive Leslie O'Connor testifies before the Celler committee
that ML control over the farm system is harmful to players and the minor
leagues. He adds that the majors-minors council plans a pact to speed a
West Coast bid for higher status.

1957
The Giants trade their Minneapolis franchise to the Red Sox for the San
Francisco Seals-franchises only, not the players.

1962
After one day of travel and 3 of rain, Billy Pierce pitches a 3-hitter for
a 5-2 Giants win in game 6. Orlando Cepeda breaks his hitless streak with
2 hits and 3 RBIs.

1964
Despite three Bronx Bombers homeruns by Mickey Mantle, Clete Boyer and Phil
Linz in game 7 at Sportsman's Park, the Cardinals hang on to defeat the
Yankees, 7-5, to capture their seventh World Championship. Bob Gibson, who
struck out 31 batters in 27 innings during his three starts, is selected as
the World Series Most Valuable player. The Boyer brothers both hit homeruns
in game 7 of the World Series, Ken for the Cardinals, and Clete for the
Yankees. Both siblings accomplish the feat in their last at-bat of the Fall
Classic. Mantle's three-run homer to the opposite field off right-hander
Gibson is his third dinger of the series. The Sportsman's Park bomb extends
the Mick's World Series record to 18. Bobby Richardson establishes a World
Series record playing in thirty consecutive Fall Classic games. The Yankees'
second baseman shares the record for the most hits (13), RBIs (12) and runs
scored (8) in a seven game series (1960).

1968
Roger Nelson is the initial choice of the Royals in the AL expansion
draft. Don Mincher is the Pilots' first choice. Other Seattle selections
include Tommy Harper, Tommy Davis, Gary Bell and Lou Piniella. Kansas City
chooses Wally Bunker, Moe Drabowsky, Hoyt Wilhelm and Joe Foy.

1969
A memorable WS game pits Tom Seaver against Mike Cuellar. RF Ron Swoboda's
questionable dive at Brooks Robinson's sinking liner with runners at 1B
and 3B in the 9th inning results in a brilliant catch, even though Frank
Robinson tags and scores the tying run. In the 10th, Mets PH J. C. Martin,
running illegally inside the 1B line after a bunt, is hit on the wrist by
P Pete Richert's errant throw, enabling pinch runner Rod Gaspar to score
from second as the Mets win in 10 innings, 2-1. The game is enlivened by
Earl Weaver getting thrown out after protesting ball and strike calls by
Shag Crawford. Earl is the 3rd manager to leave early in a WS, but the
first since 1935.

1970
For the 3rd time the Orioles overcome a 3-0 deficit to bury the Reds, 9-3,
and win the World Championship 4 games to one. Frank Robinson and Merv
Rettenmund each homer and drive in 2 runs. Brooks Robinson is selected
as the World Series Most Valuable Player after batting .429 (9 for 21)
and driving in six runs during the five-game set against Cincinnati. The
Orioles' third baseman becomes the first player to be named the MVP in the
Fall Classic, an All-Star game (1966) and for his league (AL - 1964).

1972
In his last appearance at a major league ballpark, Jackie Robinson, speaking
prior to game 2 of the World Series nine days before his death, urges baseball
to hire a black manager. The first African-American skipper will not be
hired until 1975 when the Indians employ Frank Robinson to run the team.

The A's win, 2-1, as Joe Rudi clouts a HR and makes a game-saving catch
in the 9th to back up Catfish Hunter's pitching before an afternoon crowd
of 53,224, a record for Cincinnati. The A's take a 2-game advantage as the
Series moves to Oakland.

1974
In a Tuesday night game, the surprise starter for the Dodgers is Al
Downing. But Catfish Hunter is too much for LA, and Oakland wins another
3-2 game.

1975
At Riverfront Stadium, Luis Tiant throws 163 pitches in winning his 2nd game,
5-4, and evening the Series at 2 games apiece.

1977
The Yankees win, 4-2, to take a 3-1 advantage in the WS. Jackson doubles
and homers, and Guidry notches a 4-hitter, striking out 7.

1978
The Yankees pummel the Dodgers with 18 hits to win the 5th game, 12-2. Bucky
Dent, Mickey Rivers and Brian Doyle have 3 hits each.  Thurman Munson drives
in 5 runs and Roy White contributes 3.

1980
George Brett is forced out of game 2 of the World Series in the 6th inning
with a severe case of hemorrhoids, and Philadelphia wins, 6-4, to take a
2-0 lead. Brett will undergo surgery tomorrow and return for game 3. Mike
Schmidt's RBI keys a 4-run rally in the 8th off ace Dan Quisenberry.

1981
With Dave Righetti, Ron Davis and Goose Gossage combining to shut out Oakland,
4-0, the Yankees sweep the A's to capture their thirty-third American League
pennant. The Bronx Bombers will face the Dodgers in the World Series for
the third time in the past five Fall Classics.

Less than a year after leading the club to its only World Championship,
Phillies manager Dallas Green jumps to the Cubs to become their general
manager.

Willie McGee has 2 HRs to drive in 4 runs, and makes a great catch to save
another run. Joaquin Andujar wins, 6-2, despite having to leave the game
after being hit by a line drive.

1982
Willie McGee becomes the third rookie to hit two homeruns in the same World
Series game. Going deep off Brewers starter Pete Vuckovich in the 5th and
7th innings in game 3 of the Fall Classic, the Cardinals' center fielder
joins Charlie Keller (1939) and Tony Kubek (1957), who also accomplished
the feat in the third game of their respective Fall Classics.

1983
Rich Dauer has 3 hits and 3 RBIs to lead Baltimore to a 5-4 Series win.

1985
The Royals once again stave off elimination to the Blue Jays, aided by George
Brett's 3rd HR of the series, all off Doyle Alexander. The Royals win, 5-3.

1986
In the longest game in post-season history (4 hours 42 minutes), the Mets
beat the Astros, 7-6 in 16 innings, to earn their first trip to the World
Series since 1973. Trailing 3-0, Lenny Dykstra and Ray Knight spark a
ninth-inning rally which sends the game into extra innings. New The Mets
score 3 more runs in the top of the 16th and Houston answers with 2 of its
own before Jesse Orosco fans Kevin Bass to end the game.

After being down three games to one in the ALCS, the Red Sox pull off one the
greatest comebacks in playoff history by defeating the California Angels, 8-1,
to win the American League pennant. The game caps yet another heartbreaking
failure for Angels skipper Gene Mauch, who in game 5 was one strike away
from reaching his first World Series in 25 seasons as a ML manager. After
the game, veteran 2B Bobby Grich retires.

1988
In game one of the 1988 World Series at Dodger Stadium, the Los Angeles
Dodgers trail the Oakland Athletics, 4-3, in the bottom of the ninth inning
when the Dodgers' Kirk Gibson, badly injured in the NLCS against the New York
Mets, hobbles to the plate to pinch-hit against Oakland's lethal closer,
Dennis Eckersley. With two outs, a 3-2 count against him, and Mike Davis
on second base, Gibson uses his upper body and wrists to launch a backdoor
slider from Eckersley into the right-field stands for a 5-4 Los Angeles
victory. Gibson's homerun re-energizes the underdog Dodgers and shatters the
confidence of the A's, who lost the series in five games. It inspires the
coining of the phrase "walk-off homerun," and is widely regarded as one of
the greatest moments in baseball history. Gibson was not expected to play
in the NLCS, and will not play again in the Series. It is the first World
Series game to end on a homerun since game 6 in 1975.

1989
Terry Steinbach's 3-run HR is the big blow as Oakland wins, 5-1.

1995
Another Jim Thome homer helps Cleveland defeat the Mariners, 3-2, in game
5 of the ALCS.

1996
The Devil Rays name Jamie Reed as the club's head trainer. The 37-year-old,
formerly the assistant trainer for the Orioles, is the first on-field major
league hire for the new expansion team.

1997
A resolution creating a 16-team National League and a 14-team American League
for the upcoming season is approved by Major League Baseball. The expansion
Devil Rays are placed in the AL Eastern Division, and the NL's newest team,
the Rockies, will play in the circuit's western division.

The Orioles waste another magnificent effort by Mike Mussina as the
Indians score the game's only run on Tony Fernandez' 12th-inning HR to win,
1-0. Mussina hurls 8 shutout innings and allows just 1 hit, while walking
2 and striking out 10. Charles Nagy does not give up a run in 7 1/3 innings
for the Indians, while surrendering 9 hits, as the O's leave 14 batters on
base. It is the Tribe's second pennant in three years.

1998
The Reds' managing Executive John Allen pulls off the first big trade of
the off-season, swapping a three-game home series with the White Sox to
the Cubs in exchange for a three-game home set with the Indians. In 1999,
the Reds will play a series in Cleveland, as scheduled, and now another
series in Cincinnati on July 9-11.

1999
Behind the pitching of Tom Glavine, the Braves defeat the Mets, 1-0, for
their 3rd win in a row. Atlanta scores an unearned run in the 1st inning
with the help of 2 NY errors. It is the 1st time all year the Mets make 2
errors in the same inning. With Gerald Williams on 2nd and Bret Boone on 1st,
with one out, the Braves pulled off a double steal. Williams scores when
Mets C Mike Piazza fires the ball into center field trying to throw out Boone.

The Indians fire manager Mike Hargrove, who guided the team to 5 consecutive
Central Division titles.

2000
The Mets defeat the Cardinals, 10-6, to take a commanding 3-games-to-1
lead in the NLCS. NY strokes a record 5 doubles in the 1st inning, and Mike
Piazza slams a HR for the Mets. Glendon Rusch gets the win with 3 scoreless
innings in relief.

The Mariners defeat the Yankees, 6-2, to close within 1 game of the New
Yorkers, who hold a 3-games-to-2 lead in the ALCS. Edgar Martinez and John
Olerud hit successive HRs in the 5th inning for Seattle.

2001
After losing their first playoff appearance to the Mets in 1999, the
Diamondbacks win their postseason series beating the Cardinals in only
their fourth year of existence. Tony Womack's two-out game-winning hit in
the deciding fifth game of the NLDS gives Arizona the 2-1 victory.

The Yankees defeat the A's, 5-3, to move into the ALCS. In doing so, they
become the 1st team ever to win a best-of-5 series after losing the first
2 games at home. SS Derek Jeter gets a pair of hits to break Pete Rose's
postseason record with 87. David Justice hits a PH HR for NY while Mike
Stanton gets the win in relief. Jason Giambi goes 4 for 4 for Oakland.

The Mariners advance to the ALCS with a 3-1 win over Cleveland in the
deciding game of their Division Series. Ichiro Suzuki gets 3 hits for Seattle,
Mark McLemore drives home 2 runs, and Jamie Moyer gets the win.

2002
Kirk Gibson signs a three-year deal to become Detroit's new bench coach. The
aggressive former outfielder joins the staff of the newly hired skipper,
Alan Trammell, a former 1984 World Champion Tiger teammate.

2003
Steve Bartman, the Cubs fan who deflected a foul ball in game 6 of the
NLCS, releases a statement explaining his actions. During a weepy apology,
the 26-year-old human resources company worker asks Chicago fans to redirect
their negative energy into positive support for the team during game 7 of the
championship series. The Marlins complete a stunning comeback by defeating
the Cubs, 9-6, to win their 3rd straight game and the NLCS. HRs by Kerry Wood
and Moises Alou give Chicago a 5-3 lead, but Florida bounces back to take the
lead on Luis Castillo's RBI single in the 6th. Miguel Cabrera hits a 3-run
homer for the Marlins. Ivan Rodriguez is named the NLCS Most Valuable Player.

The Red Sox rally for 3 runs in the 7th inning to come from behind and pull
out a 9-6 victory over the Yankees to send the ALCS to a 7th game. Boston
slugs 16 hits, including 4 by Nomar Garciaparra, and gets HRs from Jason
Varitek and Trot Nixon.

2005
The White Sox take a commanding 3-games-to-1 lead over the Angels in the
ALCS with an 8-2 victory behind Freddy Garcia. Paul Konerko hits a 3-run
HR for Chicago, while AJ Pierzynski also connects.

The Astros defeat the Cardinals, 4-3, to take the lead in the NLCS. Roger
Clemens gets credit for the victory, and Mike Lamb hits a 2-run HR for
Houston.

2006
The Mets even their NLCS with a 12-5 win over the Cardinals. Carlos Delgado
drives in 5 runs for New York on a 2B and HR, while Carlos Beltran slugs
a pair of homers and David Wright adds a solo shot. Oliver Perez gets
the victory.

2008
In game 5 of the NLCS, the visiting Phillies beat the Dodgers, 5-1, to
win their first pennant since 1993. Southpaw Cole Hamels, the series MVP,
hurls his third postseason gem and Jimmy Rollins starts the Philadelphia
attack with a leadoff homerun to start the game.

2011
With another homerun in the Game 6 clincher, a 15-5 Ranger rout of Detroit,
Nelson Cruz sets a new record for the most round-trippers in a postseason
series with six. The Texas right-fielder, who ended the regular season
in a slump, is named the ALCS Most Valuable Player for his outstanding
contribution to his team's success in the championship series.

2012
The Reds sign Dusty Baker to a two-year contract extension, giving their
63-year-old manager another chance to take the team beyond the first round
of the playoffs. Cincinnati has participated in the postseason in two of the
last three years, including this season's heartbreaking loss in the NLDS,
losing the last three contests at home in a five-game series to San Francisco.

2014
The Royals become the first team to win eight consecutive postseason games
when they swept the Orioles in the ALCS with a 2-1 victory at Kauffman
Stadium. Kansas City, after winning the Wild Card game over the A's,
continued their winning ways by beating the Angels in the first three games
of the best-of-five ALDS series.

