Oct 19

1902
In Omaha, the AL all-star team loses to the NL all-star squad, 7-5. Donovan
and Mercer are the opposing pitchers.

In practice before a game between Racine and host Kenosha, WI, former Chicago
hurler Fred Pfeffer, 42, fractures his arm attempting to throw from 2B to
home. Doctors say he will never pitch again.

1913
The Giants and White Sox, fortified with other players, start their world
tour in Cincinnati. After a 31-game tour to Seattle, they will head for the
Philippines, Australia, China and Japan. Reach is the exclusive supplier
of equipment, with Baseball Magazine noting that its cork-center ball will
be used.

1923
Citing the unsavory characters associated with the sport, AL president Ban
Johnson persuades AL owners to prohibit boxing matches in their parks. The
NL declines to go along with it.

1930
At Havana's Stadium Cerveza Tropical a group of major league all-stars
completes a 7-game series with a squad led by Jewel Ens winning, 6-2,
over Dave Bancroft's team. The Ens team takes the series, 5 to 2,
with most of the games close (as researched by Bill Nowlin) and very
well attended. Participating are future Hall of Famers Bancroft, Heinie
Manush, Rabbit Maranville, Paul Waner, Al Lopez, Pie Traynor, Chuck Klein,
Carl Hubbell and Bill Terry. But the star of the series is Larry French,
who wins 3 games. In between games 5 and 6, the Bancrofts beat a Havana
all-star team, 2-1, scoring the winning run in the 9th. A plaque at the
stadium commemorates the series.

1932
Receiving all six first-place votes, Chuck Klein (.348, 38, 137) is named
the National League's Most valuable Player. The 27-year outfielder becomes
the first Phillies player to win the award. Jimmie Foxx wins in the AL.

1939
Cincinnati release future Hall of Famer Al Simmons. He'll sign next on
December 10 with the A's.

1949
Three weeks after acquiring SS Chico Carrasquel from the Dodgers organization
for cash and 2 minor leaguers, in one of their best trades in franchise
history, the White Sox obtain future Hall of Famer Nellie Fox from the
A's in exchange for catcher Joe Tipton. The hard-nosed second baseman will
lead the league in hits four times and will win the 1959 American League
MVP during his 14-year tenure with the team.

1956
Playing below par after their 7-game WS loss to the Yankees, the Dodgers
lose the first game of an exhibition series in Japan to the Yomiuri Giants,
5-4. Nonetheless, the Dodgers will win 14, lose 4, and tie one in the series.

1964
Ailing Reds Fred Hutchinson resigns as manager after compiling a 60-49 record.

Harry 'the Hat' Walker is named as manager of the Pirates.

Branch Rickey is fired from his $65,000 per year consulting job with the
Cardinals.

1965
The Mets purchase C Jerry Grote from Houston.

New York's Mark Baldwin surrenders only 3 hits, but is outdueled by Ed
Stein, who pitches his 2nd one-hitter of the season to lead Brooklyn to a
3-0 victory.

1967
Senator Stuart Symington blasts A's owner Charlie Finley on the floor of the
United States Senate, calling him "one of the most disreputable characters
ever to enter the American sports scene."

1972
Using four straight singles (three by pinch-hitters), the A's score twice
in the ninth to win game 4 of the World Series defeating the Reds, 3-2.

1975
The Boston Globe uses aerial photography to measure the exact distance of
the LF wall at Fenway from home plate. The distance:  304.779 feet. Art
Keefe and writer George Sullivan measure it this month at 309 feet 4 inches.

1976
At Yankee Stadium, DH Dan Driessen contributes 2 singles and a HR to
Cincinnati's 3rd straight WS triumph. The final score is 6-2.

1978
The White Sox fire Larry Doby, who posted a 37-50 record for the fifth-place
team as a mid-season replacement for skipper Bob Lemon. The team names Don
Kessinger as player-manager for next season.

1980
A 9th-inning rally for 2 runs against Dan Quisenberry gives game 5 to the
Phils by a 4-3 margin. Del Unser hits a pinch double in the frame to drive
in Schmidt with the tying run and Manny Trillo then delivers a single for
the game-winner.

1981
In game 5 of the NLCS, Rick Monday hits a solo homerun with 2 outs in the
top of the 9th against Montreal's Steve Rogers to give Los Angeles a 2-1
victory and a trip to the World Series. The loss, played in bitterly cold
conditions in Montreal, will be known as Blue Monday.

1982
The Cards sit through 2 rain delays to easily win game 6 by a 13-1 score.

Rather than give him the contract extension he requested, A's president Roy
Eisenhardt fires manager Billy Martin, who led the club to a 68-94 record
this season after winning the AL West in 1981.

1985
St. Louis wins the opener of the "I-70 Series" behind ace John Tudor, 3-1.

1986
At Shea Stadium, Steve Crawford is the winning pitcher in the Red Sox'
9-3 victory over the Mets in game 2 of the World Series. The right-handed
reliever, who was 0-2 before the start of the postseason, becomes the first
hurler to win a Fall Classic contest after being winless during the regular
season. Boston has 18 hits against Doc Gooden and 4 relievers.

1987
Billy Martin is named manager of the Yankees for a bizarre 5th time,
replacing Lou Piniella, who replaced Martin, and who is "promoted" to general
manager. Piniella led the Yankees to an 89-73 record in 1987, 4th in the
AL East. This time Martin will stay at the team's helm until June 23, 1988.

1988
The Dodgers win, 4-3, taking advantage of Oakland errors to beat Dave Stewart.

1990
Cincinnati moves within one game of a shocking World Series sweep by beating
Oakland, 8-3, in game 3. 3B Chris Sabo slugs a pair of homeruns for the Reds.

1991
The Twins defeat the Braves, 5-2, in game 1 of the World Series. SS Greg
Gagne's 3-run HR off Charlie Leibrandt in the 5th inning helps support the
strong effort of winning pitcher Jack Morris.

1993
Following a 72-minute delay because of rain, the Blue Jays finally take the
field against the Phillies and pound out a 10-3 victory in game 3. Toronto's
13 hits include a HR and a triple by Paul Molitor. Pat Hentgen gets credit
for the win.

1994
For the third year in a row, a Dodger is named Rookie of the Year. Raul
Mondesi, like last year's pick, Mike Piazza, is a unanimous choice. The
fleet Dominican OF hit .306 with 16 homers and 16 assists.

1997
The Indians bounce back with a 6-1 victory in game 2 of the Series. Chad
Ogea gets the win and Sandy Alomar connects for a homerun. Marquis Grissom
has 3 hits for Cleveland.

1999
The Braves defeat the Mets, 10-9 in 11 innings, to take the NLCS,
4-games-to-2. Atlanta blew leads of 5-0 and 7-3, as NY eventually tied
the score on a HR by Mike Piazza. A bases-loaded walk by Kenny Rogers with
1 out in the last half of the 11th brings home the winning run. Braves C
Eddie Perez is voted MVP of the LCS.

2000
Dusty Baker, who led the Giants to a National League West flag with baseball's
best record (97-65), reaches agreement with the Giants on a two-year contract
extension. The pact makes the two-time National League Manager of the Year
the second-highest-paid skipper in the majors.

2001
Curt Schilling's 4-hitter gives the Diamondbacks the lead in the NLCS
as Arizona defeats Atlanta, 5-1. Schilling fans 12 for Atlanta as Craig
Counsell gets 3 hits and Steve Finley drives home 3 runs.

2002
At Edison International Field of Anaheim, the Giants edge the Angels in game
1 of the Fall Classic, 4-3. It is the first time two wild card teams have
faced one another in the World Series. Tsuyoshi Shinjo becomes the first
Japanese-born player to appear in the World Series. The Giant designated
hitter goes 1 for 3. Barry Bonds, Reggie Sanders and JT Snow homer for SF
as Jason Schmidt gets the win. Troy Glaus hits a pair of round-trippers
for Anaheim.

2003
The Yankees bounce back behind Andy Pettitte to tie the Series at 1 game
apiece with a 6-1 triumph in game 2. Hideki Matsui's 3-run HR in the 1st
inning is all Pettitte needs. Alfonso Soriano also homers for NY. Mark
Redman takes the loss for the Marlins.

2004
In an ALCS game which features two reversed calls by the umpires, the Red
Sox become the first team in baseball history after trailing the series 0-3
to force a game 7. Boston, who was three outs from being swept in game 4,
gets an outstanding pitching performance from Curt Schilling, playing with
a dislocated ankle tendon, to beat the Yankees at Yankee Stadium, 4-2. In a
pivotal play Alex Rodriguez is ruled out for interference after slapping the
ball from Red Sox pitcher Bronson Arroyo's glove. As a result Derek Jeter,
who had scored, is ordered back to first with two outs rather than one,
killing a potential rally. Mark Bellhorn hits a HR for the Sox. Bernie
Williams homers for the Yanks.

2005
The Astros, one of six teams never to have appeared in the World Series,
break the franchise's 43-year drought and advance to the Fall Classic
beating the Cardinals in the NLCS, 5-1, in game 6. Houston had been close
before, coming up short five times in their history in a game with the NL
flag on the line, including being one strike away in game 5 before Albert
Pujols dashed the hometown dreams by hitting a two-strike two out three-run
ninth-inning homer forcing a game 6 in St. Louis. Roy Oswalt gets today's
victory for Houston while Jason Lane hits a HR. Oswalt is named the series
MVP for his 2 victories.

2006
For a new generation of fans, the term "the Catch" may conjure up memories
of Endy Chavez' NLCS game 7 leaping catch at Shea's left field fence with
his outstretched glove grabbing a ball destined to be a Scott Rolen two-run
homerun and starting an unbelievable double play. The heroics are overshadowed
in the ninth inning as Yadier Molina hits a two-run homer and Carlos Beltran,
who has the best HR ratio (11/81) in postseason history looks at a third
strike with the bases loaded with Mets giving the Cardinals a 3-1 victory
and the pennant. Randy Flores gets the win in relief. Jeff Suppan is named
NLCS MVP.

2007
After 12 seasons and 12 playoff appearances including 10 AL East titles,
six pennants and four world championships, manager Joe Torre rejects the
Yankees' overture which calls for a pay cut. The non-negotiable offer -
a one-year $5 million deal with $1 million incentives per playoff round
and an $8 million option for 2009 if the Yankees reach next year's World
Series - was considered by many to be insulting and a ploy to oust the
popular manager without upsetting the team's fans.

Trey Hillman, a successful skipper in the minors and in Japan, is hired
by the Royals to manage their club. The 44-year-old current Nippon Ham
Fighters manager, who has never played, coached or managed in the big
leagues, spent 13 years in the dugout in the Yankees' minor leagues and
was named manager of the year three times.

2008
Behind the solid performance of starter Matt Garza and the stellar relief
work of rookie David Price to finish the game, which included striking out
J.D. Drew with the bases loaded to end the eighth, the hometown Rays beat
the defending world champion Red Sox, 3-1, in the decisive game 7 of the
ALCS to win their first American League pennant. After posting the worst
record in baseball last season, the Rays advance to the World Series and
will host the Phillies in game 1 of the Fall Classic at Tropicana Field.

2009
Kenji Johjima, the first Japanese catcher in major league history, surprises
the Mariners by opting out of the final two seasons of his three-year
deal. Unhappy about being benched, the 33-year-old struggling backstop
walks away from $15.8 million to finish his career in Japan.

2010
The Yankees pay tribute to Freddy Schuman, a fan favorite at the ballpark
since 1988 due to his signs and the rhythmic banging of a spoon against a
skillet, by putting some of his memorabilia inside Gate 4 at the Stadium,
and with a moment of silence prior to game 4 of the ALCS. The fans also
show their appreciation of 85-year-old iconic "Freddy Sez" when they
photograph friends banging his displayed pan, and with their chanting of
"Fred-dy! Fred-dy!" during the contest against the Rangers.

The Nationals sign general manager Mike Rizzo to a five-year contract
extension, promoting him to the executive vice president of baseball
operations for the organization. The new position, made available when team
president Stan Kasten resigned, gives the 48-year-old more control over
the franchise as well as a direct line to the team's ownership, including
principal owner Ted Lerner.

The Cubs select Mike Quade, Lou Pinella's interim replacement who guided
the team to a 24-13 record during the last six weeks of the season, as the
franchise's newest manager. Triple-A Iowa skipper and a Hall of Fame icon
Ryne Sandberg, a finalist in the selection process, was thought to be the
front-runner for the position.

