Oct 21

1917
In an exhibition game (Henry W. Thomas' WALTER JOHNSON:  BASEBALL'S BIG
TRAIN) in Kansas City featuring the second and last matchup between Walter
Johnson and Grover Cleveland Alexander, Alex' team wins, 4-3. Included
in Alexander's lineup is 21 year-old Rogers Hornsby. Hornsby describes
his last at-bat (in his 1962 book MY WAR WITH BASEBALL) "Johnson had two
strikes on me. He threw me a real fast ball and I knocked it straight for
the fence. The ball knocked out the knot and went through the fence for a
homerun and we won 4-3. The hole, I admit, was one of the biggest cases of
pure luck I ever heard of. I'm convinced he absolutely had the best fastball
of anyone who ever played baseball." Hornsby will face Johnson again in 1924.

1934
An all-star team led by Babe Ruth and Connie Mack sails on tour to Hawaii
and Japan. Players with wives include Lou Gehrig, Jimmie Foxx, Charlie
Gehringer, Lefty Gomez, Earl Averill and Lefty O'Doul.

1935
The Phillies trade Al Todd to the Pirates for Earl Grace and young pitcher
Claude Passeau, who gave up 4 runs in 3 innings in his only ML game. He'll
improve.

1957
With major league baseball coming to the Bay Area, the Giants buy the single A
minor league team in Arizona for the purpose of moving the San Francisco Seals
to the nearby desert. Their new farm team will be known as the Phoenix Giants.

The Senators reject the initial overtures of Minneapolis and St. Paul to
move the team there.

1958
P Kazuhisa Inao posts his 4th consecutive win in the Japan Series to bring
the Nishitetsu Lions to a dramatic win after losing the first 3 games to
the Yomiuri Giants.

1959
The Players Association approves 2 All-Star games in 1960, to be held in
Kansas City and New York. The players would like to have them within 4 days
of each other.

President Branch Rickey says that a Continental League franchise will be
awarded to Buffalo. Montreal, Atlanta and Dallas/Ft. Worth are still in
the running for the remaining 2 slots.

1964
After just 11 years in Milwaukee, the Braves Board of Directors votes to
ask the NL for permission to move to Atlanta. Milwaukee County officials
sue to block the move.

1968
The Expos purchase 3B Bob Bailey from the Dodgers.

Elston Howard, after 2 seasons with the Red Sox, announces his retirement.

1969
Pittsburgh acquires P Dave Giusti and C Dave Ricketts from St. Louis for
1B/OF Carl Taylor and OF Frank Vanzin.

1972
The Reds send the Series to its 7th game with an 8-1 victory, the only game
of the Series decided by more than one run. Bench has a HR and Bobby Tolan
and Cesar Geronimo each drive in 2 runs.

1973
In game seven, the hometown A's capture their second consecutive World
Series defeating the Mets, 5-2. MVP Reggie Jackson and Bert Campaneris both
hit two-run homers for Oakland.

1975
At Fenway Park, Fred Lynn's 3-run first-inning HR is matched by teammate
Bernie Carbo's pinch 3-run HR in the 8th to tie the game at 6-all. The
Sox then fill the bases with no outs in the 9th but fail to bring in a
run. But Boston evens the Series again with a dramatic 7-6 victory, won
by Fisk's 12th-inning HR off the LF foul pole. Fisk's HR is one the most
dramatic homeruns in major league history. This event was chosen as one of
baseball's most memorable moments in 2002.

1976
The Reds take a 3-0 lead against Ed Figueroa, but the Yankees close it to
3-2. A 4-run splurge in the 9th, topped by Johnny Bench's 2nd HR of the
game, ices the Reds' 7-2 win, completing a 4-game sweep of the Yankees for
their second consecutive World Championship. WS MVP Johnny Bench has 2 HRs
and 5 RBIs in this game, and demolishes the Yankees with .533 hitting for
the Series. Opposing C Thurman Munson had 6 straight singles to tie a WS
mark. The 1976 Reds become the first team ever to go through an entire LCS
and WS without a defeat.

1980
In game 6 in front of 65,838 fans at Veterans Stadium, the Phillies win
their first World Series ever in the 98-year history of the franchise by
defeating the Royals, 4-1. Winning pitcher Steve Carlton limits Kansas City
to 4 hits in seven innings and Tug McGraw hurls the last two frames to pick
up the save. Philadelphia's Mike Schmidt is named MVP, hitting .381 with
2 homeruns and 7 RBIs, while KC's Willie Wilson is the goat, striking out
a record 12 times (including the final out of the series with the bases
loaded) and hitting only .154.

1981
Goose Gossage gets his 2nd save in as many days as he preserves Tommy John's
3-0 win in game 2. Bob Watson has two hits and a RBI.

In a little-noted trade, the Cardinals and Yankees swap minor leaguers;
New York receives lefty Bob Sykes, while the Cardinals get 22-year-old
outfielder Willie McGee. Sykes' arm troubles will reoccur, and he'll last
one more season in the minors.

1986
After losing the first two World Series games at home, the Mets beat the
Red Sox at Fenway Park, 7-1. Bob Ojeda beat his old team. Lenny Dykstra's
first-inning homerun marks the third time in history in which the Mets'
lead-off hitter has homered in the initial inning of game 3 of the Fall
Classic. The feat was also accomplished by Tommy Agee (1969) and Wayne
Garrett (1973).

1987
With the help of a 3-run HR by the unlikely Tom Lawless - 2 hits all season -
St. Louis wins, 7-2, to even the WS. The Cards score 6 in the 4th inning.

1992
Toronto takes a 3-1 lead in the Series with a 2-1 victory in game 4. Jimmy
Key gets the victory and Pat Borders homers for the Blue Jays. It marks a
record 10 straight post season games in which Toronto has hit a HR.

1993
In sharp contrast to game 4, the pitchers are in control of game 5 of the
Series, with Curt Schilling holding Toronto to 5 hits in shutting them
down by a count of 2-0. Kevin Stocker's double in the 2nd inning proves
to be decisive. Schilling is the first Phillies hurler to pitch a World
Series shutout.

1994
The Chicago Cubs name Jim Riggleman as manager and the San Diego Padres
name Bruce Bochy as manager.

1995
The Braves beat Cleveland, 3-2, in game 1 of the WS behind Greg Maddux. Fred
McGriff homers for Atlanta, while Kenny Lofton becomes the 1st player since
1921 to steal 2 bases in one inning of a Series game. The 2 teams combine
for only 5 hits, tying a WS record for fewest hits by both clubs.

After seven years, Roland Hemond resigns as General Manager of the
Orioles. Baltimore will hire Pat Gillick as his replacement on the 27th.

1996
After being awarded one of the two expansion franchises for Triple-A by the
National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, Durham officially
becomes the home of the Devil Rays' top farm club beginning in 1998. Tampa
Bay and Capitol Broadcasting Co., Inc. jointly own the new North Carolina
franchise, but the team will continue to be called the Bulls.

Greg Maddux shuts out the Yankees by a score of 4-0 as the Braves take
their 2nd straight as the visiting team. Fred McGriff's 3 RBIs give him a
major league record 15 for the postseason.

1997
In a slugfest, the Marlins plate 7 runs in the 9th inning to outscore the
Indians, 14-11, and take game 3. Gary Sheffield drives in 5 runs for Florida
on 3 hits, including a double and a HR. Darren Daulton and Jim Eisenreich
also homer for the Fish, while Jim Thome connects for Cleveland.

1998
The Yankees close out an incredible year by shutting out the Padres, 3-0,
and sweeping the NL champs to win the World Series. Andy Pettitte gets
the victory, and Scott Brosius is named Series MVP. It is the Yankees'
24th World Series championship, and their 125th victory this season.

2000
The Yankees defeat the Mets, 4-3 in 12 innings, in game 1 of the WS. The
longest game in WS history (4 hours 51 minutes) is ended on Jose Vizcaino's
single which drives home Tino Martinez. It is Vizcaino's 4th hit of the
night. The Mets lead, 3-2, going into the 9th, but Armando Benitez surrenders
the tying run on a sacrifice fly by Chuck Knoblauch. The victory is the
Yankees 13th in a row in Series play for a new record. Todd Pratt of the
Mets ties a Series mark by being hit by pitches 2 times.

2001
The Diamondbacks defeat the Braves, 3-2, to win the NLCS and reach the
World Series for the first time in their history. They get to the Series
faster than any expansion team in history, doing so in the 4th year of
their existence. Randy Johnson gets the win for Arizona. Erubiel Durazo's
PH 2-run HR is the key blow. Craig Counsell is named the NLCS MVP.

The Yankees take a 3-1 lead in their ALCS matchup with Seattle, defeating
the Mariners by a score of 3-1. Bret Boone's 8th-inning HR broke a scoreless
tie, but Bernie Williams hits a HR in the bottom half of the inning to tie
the score. NY wins on Alfonso Soriano's 2-run dinger in the 9th. Mariano
Rivera gets the victory in relief.

2002
Florida team president David Samson, in an effort to get fans "falling
back in love with the Marlins," announces plans which includes free hot
dogs and a cozier atmosphere at Pro Player Stadium. The average crowd of
10,038 per home game, more than a third less than the previous season,
was next-to-last in the major leagues in attendance this year.

2003
The Yankees beat the Marlins, 6-1, behind the pitching of Mike Mussina
and the hitting of Derek Jeter and Bernie Williams. Jeter gets 3 hits off
losing starter Josh Beckett (the only hits Beckett allows), while Williams
and Aaron Boone hit HRs. Williams' homer is his record 19th in postseason
play. His 65 RBIs is also a new postseason record.

Seattle Mariner P Jamie Moyer wins the Roberto Clemente Award for excellence
on the field and in the community.

2004
At Busch Stadium, the Cardinals advance to the World Series for the first
time in 17 years. The Redbirds capture the National League pennant beating
Roger Clemens and the Astros in game 7 of an exciting NLCS, 5-2. Scott
Rolen homers for St. Louis, while Craig Biggio connects for Houston.

2005
On the eve of the World Series beginning in Chicago, Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and
Tom Harkin (D-Iowa) sponsor a resolution in the U.S. Senate calling for
'Shoeless' Joe Jackson to be "appropriately honored for his outstanding
baseball accomplishments." The former White Sox outfielder, considered to
be one of the greatest players in the history of the game, was banned from
baseball for life by commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis for his role in
1919 'Black Sox' Fall Classic fix.

2006
In the first match-up of rookies to start game 1 of the World Series,
Anthony Reyes bests Justin Verlander as the visiting Cardinals beat the
Tigers at Comerica Park, 7-2. The 25-year-old right-hander allows 2 runs
and 4 hits striking out 5 Redbirds in eight innings of work. Albert Pujols
and Scott Rolen hit HRs. Craig Monroe homers for Detroit.

After hosting Super Bowl XL at Ford Field in February, Detroit becomes
just the second city to host both a Super Bowl and a World Series in the
same calendar year. San Diego was the site of the NFL Championship game
and Fall Classic in 1998.

2009
In game 5 of the NLCS the Phillies defeat the Dodgers capturing their second
straight pennant. Philadelphia, with their 10-4 victory at Citizens Bank
Park, becomes the first National League team to repeat the feat since the
Braves won consecutive flags in 1995-96. When he is issued a first-inning
walk by L.A.'s starter Vicente Padilla, Chase Utley ties a postseason record
by reaching base in 25 consecutive contests. The slugging second baseman,
who has reached base in every postseason game in which he has participated
except for his first in 2007, equals Boog Powell's mark established from
1966-1971 playing for the Orioles.

2010
Pleased to be staying in Detroit, Brandon Inge signs an $11.5 million
two-year deal to remain with the Tigers. The 33-year-old infielder, prone
to striking out, is better known for his defensive prowess at third base
than for his hitting.

2014
During Game 1 of the World Series at Kauffman Stadium, Laurence Leavy,
better known as the Marlin Man, is approach by a Royals representative,
who informs him the Kansas City owner is upset with his bright orange
Miami jersey that is diverting attention from the home team on national
television. Although he is offered a variety of inducements, including
autographed memorabilia and an opportunity to sit in the luxury boxes,
the workers comp attorney refuses to remove his colorful garb, choosing to
remain in his $8,000 seat behind home plate.

