Oct 23

1910
Three Finger Brown comes back to face Coombs, who takes a 2-1 lead into the
7th. The A's get to Brown for 5 runs and a 7-2 win, and Coombs picks up his
record-tying third World Series win. The crowd of 27,374 is the Series'
largest. Philadelphia takes the Fall Classic in five games. The A's .316
BA is a WS record. For this WS, cork-center balls were secretly used for
the first time, and will be used in the ML starting next year. Previously,
rubber center balls were used.

1920
The Chicago grand jury indictment adds the names of former featherweight
boxing champ Abe Attell, Hal Chase and Bill Burns as go-betweens in the
WS scandal. Confessions, later repudiated, are signed by Ed Cicotte, Joe
Jackson, Lefty Williams and Happy Felsch.

1921
The Pirates obtain vet SS Rabbit Maranville from Boston. They give up OF
Billy Southworth, OF Fred Nicholson, IF Walter Barbare and $15,000.

1923
Babe Ruth makes a post-season appearance in a Giants uniform, as the Giants
defeat the Baltimore Orioles, 9-0. Ruth hits a HR over the RF roof at the Polo
Grounds. The game is a benefit for destitute former Giants owner John Day.

1926
In South Bend, Indiana, the Babe Ruth All-Stars, including Johnny Mostil,
Marty McManus and Urban Shocker, beat the local South Bend Indians, 7-3,
in a game called after 6 innings because of a late start. The All-Stars
were delayed 2 hours when their vehicle broke down, as researched by
historian Kevin Paczkowski. The Babe is 3 for 4 and hits a HR estimated
at 600 feet. In preparation for the Babe's visit, the local team stocked
up on baseballs at a cost of $1.23 each ... in Montreal on October 17,
the Babe hit 36 into a nearby river, according to the South Bend Tribune,
and the ensuing game had to be stopped for lack of balls. Babe's squad
will tie tomorrow when the Indians pitch the Giants' Fred Fitzsimmons,
who lives nearby. Joining Freddie is Fred Lindstrom.

1927
Bill Purdy, who hit .355 in his 2nd year with the Reds, scores a touchdown
for the Green Bay Packers against the New York Giants. Purdy's score comes
on a 5-yard run.

1931
Brooklyn announces Wilbert Robinson is through as manager and the club will
be called the Robins only in the past tense. Max Carey, a no-nonsense sort,
will take over next year.

1934
P. K. Wrigley buys more shares in the Cubs and replaces William Walker as
president. He gives player-manager Charlie Grimm complete control.

1935
Cubs C Gabby Hartnett is selected by the BBWAA as the NL MVP, with Dizzy
Dean the runner-up.

1937
Before a crowd of 22,500 at the Polo Grounds, the Cuban Giants young Johnny
Taylor outpitches Satchel Paige and the Satchel Paige All-Stars to win, 2-0,
on a no-hitter. Taylor faces 28 batters. The game is scoreless until the 8th
inning when Jim West swings late and lofts a 2-run homer into the LF stands.

1940
The MVP in the NL goes to the Reds' Frank McCormick, with Reds teammates
Bucky Walters and Paul Derringer finishing 3rd and 4th. Cards slugger John
Mize is 2nd.

1941
In Havana's La Tropical Stadium, Venezuela wins the IBA World Championship,
3-1, over Cuba. In the classic matchup, Chino Canonico bests Connie Marrero,
who gives up all 3 runs in the first inning. The 2 aces will face each
other next year in a rematch.

1945
Dodger President Branch Rickey announces that the team has signed two black
players, shortstop Jackie Robinson and pitcher Johnny Wright, to play with
Brooklyn's Triple A team in Montreal. The 26-year-old Negro League infielder
will be the first black player to play in organized baseball since 1884.

1951
Branch Rickey contends that the farm system saved baseball during the
Depression. He asks Congress for legislation that will protect it from
monopoly suits.

The AP picks Giant manager Leo Durocher as Manager of the Year.

1952
The Pacific Coast League announces its teams will play a 176-game schedule
next season.

1958
The Associated Press names Danny Murtaugh as its major league manager
of year. In his first full year in the Pirates dugout, the team improves
by 22 games, 14 games over .500, finishing in second place, eight games
behind Milwaukee.

1973
Boston trades first baseman Ben Ogilvie to the Tigers in exchange for Dick
McAuliffe. The former Detroit shortstop will hit only .210 in 100 games for
his new team next season, but in 1975 the Hartford native will become the
manager of the club's Double-A farm team, the Bristol Red Sox, located in
his home state of Connecticut.

Charlie Finley reveals that he will not release Dick Williams from his
contract unless he receives adequate compensation from the team that signs
him. Williams had resigned following the WS victory 2 days earlier.

1974
The Cubs trade sweet-swinging Billy Williams, a fixture at Wrigley for
16 years, to the A's for 2B Manny Trillo and pitchers Darold Knowles and
Bob Locker.

Wally Yonamine, an American of Japanese descent, becomes the only non-Japanese
manager ever to win the Japan Series when his Chunichi Dragons beat the
Lotte Orions.

1979
Billy Martin is involved in a barroom altercation with Joseph Cooper,
a Minnesota marshmallow salesman. Cooper requires 15 stitches to close a
gash in his lip.

1981
Despite an uncharacteristic poor performance (9 hits, 7 walks) Fernando
Valenzuela goes the distance in the Dodgers' 5-4 come-from-behind win. The
deciding run scores on a double play. Starter Dave Righetti lasts just
two innings, walking 2 and allowing 5 hits, but reliever George Frazier
takes the loss. Ron Cey has a 3-run homer for LA. Starters Valenzuela and
Righetti are the first two Rookies of the Year to oppose each other in the
WS since Willie Mays and Gil McDougald in 1951.

Joe Torre signs a 3-year contract to manage the Braves.

1984
Rick Sutcliffe, who was 16-1 for the Cubs after arriving from Cleveland 2
days before the June 15th trading deadline, is a unanimous choice as NL Cy
Young Award winner. Overall, Sutcliffe was 20-6 with a 3.64 ERA.

1985
After months of debate, King County Executive Randy Revelle and team
owner George Aggyros sign a new lease calling for the Mariners to play in
the Kingdome through the 1996 season. The deal contains a provision which
allows the M's to leave Seattle after the 1987 season if attendance stays
below 1.4 million, and season ticket sales fall under the 10,000 mark.

John Tudor wins again as he pitches a 9 inning 3-0 shutout.

1986
In game 5 of the World Series played at Fenway Park, Bruce Hurst throws
a complete game to beat the Mets, 4-2, giving up 10 hits and bringing
Boston within one game of ending their 68-year World Championship drought.
Mets ace Dwight Gooden loses again. New York will dash the Red Sox Nation's
hopes with two come-from-behind victories at Shea Stadium.

1991
The Braves even the Series at 2 games apiece with a 3-2 win in game
4. Journeyman catcher Jerry Willard's sac fly in the bottom of the 9th is
the deciding blow. Terry Pendleton and Lonnie Smith stroke solo homers for
the NLers, while Mike Pagliarulo does the same for the Twins.

1992
Florida hires Rene Lachemann as the team's 1st manager.

1993
Thanks to Joe Carter's dramatic ninth-inning three-run homer off Mitch
Williams, the Blue Jays beat the Phillies, 8-6, to win their second
consecutive World Championship. The Toronto outfielder becomes just the
second player to end the World Series with a homerun joining Bill Mazeroski
whose Forbes Field round tripper beat the Yankees in 1960. Lenny Dykstra hits
his 4th homer of the Series for the Phils. Paul Molitor is named the WS MVP.

Mike Piazza is the unanimous choice for NL Rookie of the Year. Selected as a
favor to a friend of LaSorda's on the 62nd round of the 1988 draft, Piazza
is the first rookie since Walt Dropo in 1950 to bat .300, hit 30 homers
and have 100 RBIs. No NL rookie has done that since Wally Berger in 1930.

1995
Former Astros GM Bob Watson is named as the Yankees new general manager,
replacing Gene Michael. Watson, upset with the chain of command within the
organization, will stay in the position for just two seasons, but under his
watch the team will win its first World Series since 1978 establishing the
groundwork for the very successful Bronx Bomber clubs of the late 1990's.

The Cardinals hire Tony LaRussa as manager, replacing Mike Jorgenson

Plans are approved for a new $320 million stadium for the Seattle Mariners.

1996
The Yankees even the Series by scoring twice in the 10th inning for an 8-6
win. Jim Leyritz ties the game in the 8th with a HR off Mark Wohlers as
the Braves blow a 6-run lead. John Wetteland saves the game for Graeme Lloyd.

1997
Rookie Livan Hernandez wins for the second time as Florida holds off
Cleveland for an 8-7 victory in game 5. Down 8-4, the Indians fight back
with 3 in the 9th but strand the tying runner on base. Moises Alou hits a
3-run homer for Florida, while Sandy Alomar matches him for the Tribe.

1998
Davey Johnson is hired as the manager of the Dodgers. The former Met,
Red and Oriole skipper has finished first with every team he has managed.

The Orioles hire Fran Wren as General Manager.

1999
The Yankees 2-hit the Braves, 4-1, to take the opening game of the World
Series. Orlando Hernandez holds Atlanta to 1 hit in 7 innings for the
victory. The Braves' only run comes on a 4th-inning homer by Chipper
Jones. Scott Brosius has 3 hits for NY, while Paul O'Neill drives home 2 runs.

2000
Although lacking big league managerial experience, Pirates hitting coach Lloyd
McClendon is named as the team's manager replacing recently-fired Gene Lamont.

Toronto's Carlos Delgado is named Player of the Year by The Sporting News.

2002
Lou Gehrig's consecutive games streak being broken by Cal Ripken Jr in 1995
is voted as baseball's most memorable moment by the fans participating
in a Major League Baseball and MasterCard promotion. Hank Aaron breaking
Babe Ruth's all-time homerun record, Jackie Robinson becoming the first
black to play in major league baseball, Mark McGwire breaking Roger Maris'
single-season homerun record and Lou Gehrig's farewell speech were also in
the top five events selected by the fans.

Joining Roberto Clemente and Thurman Munson, Darryl Kile will become the
third player to appear on the 2003 Hall of Fame ballot before the mandatory
five-year waiting period. The 33-year-old Cardinal pitcher, who died of
heart disease, was found dead in his Chicago hotel room in June.

In game 4 of the World Series, Barry Bonds is walked intentionally three
times setting a new record for a Fall Classic game. Angels starting pitcher
John Lackey, who issues all the free passes to the Giant left fielder,
does not factor in the decision in San Francisco's 4-3 victory at Pac Bell,
which deadlocks the series at two. David Bell drives home the winning run
in the bottom half of the 8th inning. Troy Glaus homers for Anaheim and
Tim Worrell gets the win in relief for the Giants.

2003
The Marlins move to one game away from a world championship as they defeat the
Yankees, 6-4, to take a 3-games-to-2 lead in the World Series. Winning pitcher
Brad Penny's 2-run single gives Florida a lead they never surrender. Jason
Giambi hits a pinch-hit HR in the 9th to bring the Yankees within 2 runs,
but Bernie Williams' attempt for a game-tying homer falls short at the
warning track in center field.

2004
The Red Sox take the opener of the WS with an 11-9 win over the
Cardinals. Mark Bellhorn's 2-run 8th-inning HR is the deciding blow as Boston
bounces back after blowing an early 7-2 lead. David Ortiz also homers for
the Sox, while Larry Walker connects for St. Louis.

2005
Scott Posednik's walkoff HR in the bottom of the 9h inning off Brad Lidge
gives the White Sox a 7-6 victory over the Astros and a 2-games-to-0
lead in the WS. Paul Konerko's grand slam in the 7th put Chicago in the
lead. Morgan Ensberg hits a solo HR for Houston, while Neal Cotts gets
the win in relief. It is the 14th time in World Series history a walk-off
homerun ends a contest. Bill Mazeroski remains the only player to accomplish
the feat in the seventh game of the Fall Classic.

On the verge of the first World Series game in Texas, much to the chagrin
of the Astros, MLB rules Houston must play Game 3 of the Fall Classic with
its Minute Maid Park roof open. During the regular season, the team had
a much better record (38-17) when the ballpark was enclosed than in games
started in open air (15-11).

2006
Extending his scoreless streak to 24 1/3 postseason innings, dating back
to 2003 with the Twins, Kenny Rogers blanks the Cardinals for eight innings
when the Tigers beat the Cardinals, 3-1, to even the World Series at a game
a piece. The "Gambler's" recent play-off success comes under suspicion as
TV cameras spot an unknown dark spot on the right-hander's pitching hand
in the first inning which he claims to be only mud.

2010
The Giants capture their twenty-first National League flag when they defeat
the Phillies, 3-2, in Game 6 of the NLCS at Citizens Bank Park. The decisive
blow is Juan Uribe's two-out tie-breaking homerun off Ryan Madson in the
eighth inning.

2014
The Rays, after aggressively trying to sign their manager to a third
contract extension, announce Joe Maddon has exercised an opt-out in his
contract. During his nine-year tenure with Tampa Bay, a franchise which
was perceived as perennial losers before his arrival, the popular skipper
compiled a 754-705 record, leading the team to the playoffs four times, that
included winning two AL East titles and one appearance in the World Series.

