Oct 26

1910
The Washington Post headlines a rumored trade with Walter Johnson going
to Detroit for Ty Cobb. Detroit president Frank Navin scoffs at the story,
saying he would never trade Cobb, but praising Johnson "as the best pitcher
in the country."

1911
At Shibe Park, Chief Bender cruises to his second victory, a 4-hit 13-2
complete-game breeze. The A's cap the win with a 7-run 7th, battering
three tired Giant hurlers ... Ames, Wiltse and Marquard. Outfielder Danny
Murphy leads Philadephia with four hits. Overall, the Giants manage just
13 runs and a .175 BA off Bender, Coombs and Plank. Because of the NL's
extended playing season, this is the latest ending ever for a WS, until the
"Earthquake Series" of 1989.

1917
Miller Huggins, who managed the Cardinals to a 3rd-place finish, is signed
to run the Yankees by owner Jake Ruppert. Co-owner Til Huston, who favored
Wilbert Robinson for the job, has a falling out with partner Ruppert and
will sell his half interest to Ruppert in 1923.

1919
New York Supreme Court Justice Robert Wagner rules in favor of the Yankees and
makes permanent the team's temporary restraining order against the AL. Wagner
was persuaded that Ban Johnson acted incorrectly in banning Carl Mays two
days after the pitcher was traded to New York. Johnson sent telegrams to
all the owners except Boston's Frazee telling them not to negotiate for Mays.

1923
Frank Chance signs to manage the White Sox replacing Kid Gleason but he
will resign February 17, 1924 because of illness. Coach Johnny Evers,
named acting manager, will fill the job the entire season.

1931
Charles Comiskey dies at age 72. The White Sox owner and a pioneer player
never recovered from the betrayal of the 1919 WS.

1934
Washington player-manager Joe Cronin is sold to the Boston Red Sox
for $225,000 and Lyn Lary. Recently married to Mildred Robertson, Clark
Griffith's niece and adopted daughter, Cronin is signed to a 5-year contract.

1938
The Yankees trade Myril Hoag and Joe Glenn to the Browns for Oral Hildebrand
and Buster Mills.

1939
Brooklyn Dodger exec Larry MacPhail proposes that a new World Series format
be used in which, as now, the top 2 teams in each league compete against each
other; at the same time the 2nd place teams play each other; the 3rd place
teams play each other, and so on. The results of these games are added up and
a trophy or money presented to the winners. The idea doesn't reach first base.

1940
Tigers slugging left fielder Hank Greenberg (.340, 41, 150) is named the
American League's Most Valuable Player with Indian hurler Bob Feller (27-11,
2.61) finishing second. Having won the award in 1935 as a first baseman,
'Hammerin' Hank' becomes the first player to win another MVP playing a
different position. Greenberg garners 292 points in the voting. Bob Feller
gets 222 points.

1946
Columnist Westbrook Pegler writes a critical piece about the off-field
relationship between Dodger manager Leo Durocher, actor George Raft and
well-known gamblers. This is the first of a number of articles that will
lead up to the suspension of Durocher for the 1947 season.

1949
The San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League complete an Asian tour
which includes five Japanese games. One of the Japanese games draws over
100,000 fans to watch Lefty O'Doul's team.

1950
The BBWAA select Yankee shortstop Phil Rizzuto (.324, 7, 66) as the American
League MVP. The 'Scooter', who receives 16 of 23 first-place votes, easily
outpoints runner-up Boston's Billy Goodman, the first player without a
regular position to receive consideration for the prestigious award.

Walter O'Malley succeeds Branch Rickey as president of the Dodgers. O'Malley,
who had offered to buy Rickey's share of the club to become majority owner,
is forced to offer more money when 'the Mahatma', in a final act of defiance
about being told to leave the organization, offers his share of the team
to a friend for a million dollars. Rickey ends up selling his 25 percent
interest in the club for a reported $1.05 million.

1960
In a move designed to get a jump on the National League in the expansion
race, the American League grants franchises to Washington and Los Angeles
and okays the Senators move to Minnesota. The decision to place a new team
in Washington is partly political because the owners fear the nation's
lawmakers, upset about losing the American League's oldest club, will
threaten baseball's anti-trust exemption.

1965
Don Heffner is named manager of the Reds. Dick Sisler (89-73) is out.

1971
Vida Blue wins the AL Cy Young Award by a 98-85 margin over the Tigers'
Mickey Lolich. Blue was 24-8 for the A's, posting 301 strikeouts, 8 shutouts
and a 1.82 ERA. Ferguson Jenkins wins the Cy Young Award in the NL.

1973
The Red Sox trade P Ken Tatum and OF Reggie Smith to the Cardinals for P
Rick Wise and OF Bernie Carbo.

1977
Sparky Lyle becomes the first AL reliever to win the Cy Young Award. Lyle
led the league with 72 appearances, posting a 13-5 record with 26 saves
and a 2.17 ERA.

1979
Commissioner Kuhn notifies Hall of Famer Willie Mays that if he accepts a
position with Bally Manufacturing Corporation, owner of several gambling
casinos, he must disassociate himself from ML baseball. Mays, a part-time
coach and goodwill ambassador for the Mets, will relinquish his duties upon
accepting Bally's job offer on October 29th.

1980
In a shocking announcement, Astros owner John McMullen fires president and GM
Tal Smith, replacing him with Al Rosen, former GM of the Yankees. Smith will
soon be named ML Executive of the Year. The move prompts a rebellion among
the Astros' 20 limited owners (who together own over 60 percent of the club),
and on November 24th McMullen will give up his sole authority to run the club,
accepting a position on the club's newly formed executive committee instead.

Ralph Houk, who managed the Yankees and Tigers for 16 years before retiring
in 1978, is named manager of the Red Sox. The 'Major' will compile a 312-282
(.525) won-loss record during his four-year tenure in Boston.

1982
Steve Carlton wins the NL Cy Young Award for the 4th time, a record unmatched
by any pitcher. The Phils' 37-year-old lefthander, who led the NL in wins
(23), innings (295 2/3), strikeouts (286) and shutouts (6), was a previous
winner in 1972, 1977 and 1980. He joins Walter Johnson and Willie Mays as
the only players to be voted MVP or Cy Young winner 10 or more years apart.

1985
Aided by a blown call, a bungled pop-up and a passed ball, Kansas City
scores 2 runs in the bottom of the 9th to beat St. Louis, 2-1, and even the
World Series at 3 games apiece. The Cardinals are 3 outs away from the World
Championship when Jorge Orta reaches base on a disputed infield single. The
next batter, Steve Balboni, lofts a foul pop that Clark loses track of and
lets fall untouched, then singles. After Darrell Porter's passed ball puts
runners on 2B and 3B and Hal McRae is intentionally walked to load the bases,
pinch hitter Dane Iorg singles home 2 runs to end the game.

1991
Minnesota evens the Series at 3 games each with a 4-3 win on Kirby Puckett's
dramatic HR in the bottom half of the 11th inning.

1992
The Rangers hire Kevin Kennedy as manager.

The Mets trade P Wally Whitehurst, OF D.J. Dozier and a player to be named
to the Padres in exchange for SS Tony Fernandez.

1995
Cleveland stays alive with a 5-4 win in game 5 of the WS. Orel Hershiser
gets credit for the win, and Albert Belle, Jim Thome, Luis Polonia and Ryan
Klesko all reach the seats.

1996
After two one-sided losses at home, the Yankees take their 4th in a row
from the Braves, 3-2, giving them their 23rd World Championship, and first
since 1978. Joe Girardi's 3rd-inning triple is the key blow. Starter Jimmy
Key gets the win with help from John Wetteland. Wetteland's 4 saves earn
him the MVP trophy.

1997
The Indians jump out to a 2-0 lead over Florida, but the Marlins claw their
way back and tie the score in the bottom of the 9th on a sacrifice fly by
Craig Counsell. In the last half of the 11th, SS Edgar Renteria gets his
3rd hit of the game, driving home Counsell with the winning run, as Florida
wins game 7 by a score of 3-2. The five-year-old Marlins thus become the
fastest team in baseball history to win a WS title, 3 years quicker than
the 1969 NY Mets. P Livan Hernandez is named Most Valuable Player of the
Series. The Marlins are also the first Wild Card team to win the World Series.

1998
Potential free-agent all-star catcher Mike Piazza signs the most lucrative
contract in major league history when he agrees to terms with the Mets. The
seven-year deal is worth over $91 million and includes having a suite on
road trips and a luxury box for home games at Shea.

1999
Down 5-1 in game 3 of the World Series, the Yankees bounce back to defeat
the Braves, 6-5 in 10 innings. OF Chad Curtis' leadoff HR in the bottom half
of the inning - his 2nd of the game - is the game-winner. Tino Martinez and
Chuck Knoblauch also homer for NY, with Knoblauch's 2-run blast in the 8th
tying the score at 5-5. Mariano Rivera picks up the win for the Yankees,
hurling 2 scoreless innings of relief. Curtis becomes the 11th player to
end a Fall Classic game. The Yankees go up 3-games-to-0 in the WS.

2000
In game 5 at Shea Stadium, the Yankees win their third consecutive World
Series, the fourth title in five years and record their 26th championship by
defeating the Mets, 4-2. Luis Sojo's ninth-inning two-out tie-breaking single
off starter Al Leiter is the decisive hit. Bernie Williams and Derek Jeter
homer for the Yankees. Jeter becomes the first player to win the All-Star Game
and the World Series MVP honors in the same season. The Yankee shortstop hit
.409 and his nine hits included two doubles, a triple and a pair of homeruns,
in the Bronx Bombers' five-game victory over the Mets in the Fall Classic.

Joining Hall of Famers Joe McCarthy (7), Casey Stengel (7), Connie Mack
(5) and Walter Alston (4), Yankee manager Joe Torre becomes only the fifth
skipper to win four World Series championships.

2002
When Russ Ortiz, who is tossing a 5-0 shutout, strikes out Garret Anderson
to begin the seventh inning of game 6, the Giants appear destined to win
their first World Series since 1954. The Angels, scoring a total of six
times in the seventh and eighth innings, rally from the large deficit and
stage the biggest comeback for a team facing elimination in the Fall Classic,
beating the Giants, 6-5. Scott Spiezio hits a 3-run homer for Anaheim while
Darin Erstad also connects. Brendan Donnelly gets the win in relief. Shawn
Dunston and Barry Bonds homer for SF.

2003
Citing disagreements with team owner George Steinbrenner, Don Zimmer resigns
as the bench coach of the Yankees. 'Pop-eye', a close friend of skipper Joe
Torre, will be named Senior Baseball Advisor for the Devil Rays before the
start of next season.

2004
Prior to game 3 of the World Series, Edgar Martinez receives the Roberto
Clemente Award, an honor that is given to the player who best exemplifies
the game of baseball, sportsmanship, community involvement and the
individual's contribution to his team. The Mariners designated hitter,
a native of Puerto Rico like the award's namesake, is involved in Parent
Project/Muscular Dystrophy, Children's Hospital, Make-A-Wish Foundation and
Big Brothers and Big Sisters. The Red Sox win game 3 of the WS with a 4-1
win over the Cardinals. Pedro Martinez hurls 7 shutout innings for Boston
to put St. Louis in a 3-games-to-0 hole. Manny Ramirez homers and drives
in a pair of runs for the Sox, while Larry Walker hits one out for the Cards.

2005
Willie Harris scores the game's only run in the eighth inning as Jermaine
Dye, the series MVP, singles the pinch hitter home giving the White Sox a
1-0 victory over the Astros and the team its first World Championship since
1917. Freddy Garcia gets credit for the win. For the second consecutive
year, an American League team sweeps its National League opponent. Dye is
named the Series MVP. White Sox skipper Ozzie Guillen becomes the first
foreign-born manager to win a World Series. The 41-year-old Venezuelan is
also the youngest pilot to ever win a World Championship. Tadahito Iguchi
becomes the first Japanese native to win a World Series ring. Leaving the
Fukuoka Daiei Hawks, the second baseman signed as a free agent with Chicago
prior to the start of the championship season.

Bobby Valentine becomes the first foreign manager to win the Japan Series
in the 70-year history of Japanese baseball. Sweeping the Hanshin Tigers,
the former Rangers and Mets skipper leads the Chiba Lotte Marines to their
first league championship in 31 years.

2006
The Cardinals edge the Tigers, 5-4, to take a 3-games-to-1 lead in the
WS. Adam Wainwright gets the win in relief for St. Louis, while David
Eckstein collects 4 hits including 3 2Bs. Sean Casey homers for Detroit in
a losing cause.

2007
Dmitri Young is announced as the National League Comeback Player of the Year
by the MLB Players Trust and Yahoo! Sports. The big first baseman, who was
released by the Tigers early last season due to both on and off-the-field
issues, joined the Nationals as a non-roster player and became an All-Star
selection for Washington, finishing the season batting .320, with the
tenth-best BA in the circuit.

The MLB Players Trust and Yahoo! Sports announce the selection of Devil
Rays first baseman Carlos Pena as the American League Comeback Player of
the Year. After missing most of the past two seasons and being told he
wouldn't make the team this year, the first baseman went on to set Tampa
Bay's single-season records in homers, RBIs and walks.

2008
In a 10-2 rout of the Rays in game 4 of the World Series, right-hander Joe
Blanton hits a homerun making it only the 15th time in the history of the
Fall Classic that a pitcher has homered. Ken Holtzman was the last hurler
to accomplish the feat when he went deep off Andy Messersmith in 1974.

The Hank Aaron Award, given annually to the top offensive player in each
league, is presented to Red Sox first baseman Kevin Youkilis (.312, 29,
115) and Cubs third baseman Aramis Ramirez (.289, 27, 111). The honor was
established in 1999 to commemorate the 25th Anniversary of Henry Aaron
surpassing Babe Ruth's all-time homerun record.

2009
Tony La Russa agrees to a one-year contract to return for his 15th season as
manager of the Cardinals. The Redbirds have appeared in the postseason eight
times under their 65-year-old skipper, including a World Championship in 2006.

The Padres formally introduced 35-year-old Jed Hoyer as the team's new
general manager. The former assistant to Boston's GM Theo Epstein replaces
Kevin Towers, who held the position in San Diego for 14 seasons.

Mark McGwire will join his former manager Tony La Russa on the Cardinals'
bench as the team's hitting coach, replacing Hal McRae. The one-time single
season homerun champ, whose reputation was ruined when he infamously refused
to answer questions about the use of steroids during a 2005 congressional
hearing, had LaRussa for his skipper in 15 of the 16 years he played in
the major leagues, both in Oakland and St. Louis.

2010
The Nationals notify Jim Riggleman he will returning as the team's manager
next year. Washington finished last in the National League East for the
third consecutive season, but improved by ten games in the win column,
finishing the campaign with 69 victories.

2013
With runners on second and third with one out, Jon Jay's grounder results in
Red Sox second baseman Dustin Pedroia easily throwing out Yadier Molina at the
plate. After making the tag at home, Boston backstop Jarrod Saltalamacchia's
errant throw to third base causes third baseman Will Middlebrooks to collide
with Allen Craig, who had gone to third and appears to be thrown out while
advancing to home, but the umpires ruled that the infielder interfered
with the baserunner, giving the Cardinals an unusual 5-4 walk-off victory
in the first World Series game to ever end on an obstruction call.

2014
Cardinal rookie Oscar Taveras, who participated in seven postseason games
with St. Louis earlier in the month, dies in a car accident in his native
Dominican Republic. The 22-year-old outfielder, who batted .320 and slugged
.516 as a minor leaguer, was considered by many to be a 'can't miss prospect'.

Madison Bumgarner hurls a four-hit complete-game blanking the Royals, 5-0,
in Game 6 of the World Series. The southpaw's victory, giving the Giants
a 3-2 edge, is the first shutout thrown by starter in the Fall Class since
Josh Beckett accomplish the feat for the Marlins at Yankee Stadium in 2003,
and the first for the franchise since 1962 when Jack Sanford whitewashed
New York in 1962.

