Oct 28

1904
After a 4th-place finish, the Cleveland Blues release Bill Armour and name
Nap Lajoie manager. Armour takes over the Tigers, where Ed Barrow and Bobby
Lowe split the season, as Detroit falls to 7th.

1913
In the only time the two future immortals face each other, Walter Johnson and
Christy Mathewson square off at South Main Park in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Johnson,
backed by the White Sox, wins the battle, 6-0, pitching the distance, while
Matty exits after 4 innings. Johnson strikes out 8. Tris Speaker and Buck
Weaver do the hitting for the Sox, while fan favorite Jim Thorpe has 2 hits
off Johnson. The game is delayed for nearly 2 hours when the stands collapse,
injuring 52 people and killing a soldier. The governor of Oklahoma narrowly
escapes injury in the tragedy.

1948
On Lou Boudreau Day, held in his honor by the citizens of his hometown,
Harvey (IL), the Indians skipper tells an audience his Indians were lucky
to win the recent World Series. The Cleveland player-manager cites his
infielders driving in more than 400 runs and the lack of injuries to key
players as reasons why his "third-place" club excelled this season.

1951
The Red Sox trade catcher Les Moss and flychaser Tom Wright to the Browns
for backstop Gus Niarhos and outfielder Ken Wood.

1953
The 'Old Redhead' Red Barber resigns as a Brooklyn Dodger broadcaster and
takes the 'catbird' seat with the rival New York Yankees.

1954
Despite a last-minute plea by Connie Mack, the ML owners vote down the sale
of the Athletics to a Philadelphia syndicate. The A's, plagued by debt -
even their 1954 team uniforms have not been paid for - have little choice as
the Philadelphia group, in Mrs. Mack's words "dilly-dallied." A week later,
Arnold Johnson buys a controlling interest in the Athletics from the Mack
family for $3.5 million and moves the team to Kansas City.

1957
Crooner Bing Crosby seeks to sell his stock in the Pirates to his son,
while he investigates purchasing additional stock in the Detroit Tigers.

1958
On Candlestick Point, an area in which the rocks resemble candlesticks,
construction begins on the Giants new ballpark in San Francisco. The
transplanted team will play their games at Seal Stadium until the new
ballpark on the eastern shore of the San Francisco Bay is ready.

1961
Ground is broken for the Flushing Meadow Stadium. The future home of the
New York Mets will be known as Shea Stadium in honor of Bill Shea, a lawyer
who helped to bring back the National League to the Big Apple.

1968
Bob Gibson wins his first Cy Young Award, receiving all 20 votes.

1975
New Cubs GM Salty Saltwell trades veteran SS Don Kessinger to the Cards
for reliever Mike Garman and a minor leaguer.

1979
Dick Howser replaces Billy Martin as Yankee manager. The former Florida State
baseball head coach, who spent the previous ten years as the team's third base
coach, compiles a 103-59 record leading the team to an American League East
title, but the independent-minded skipper is fired by hands-on owner George
Steinbrenner after being swept by Kansas City in the playoffs. Steinbrenner
announces that Martin is fired as a result of his recent barroom fight.

1981
After losing the first two games, Pedro Guerrero drives in 5 runs and Bert
Hooton and the Dodgers beat the Yankees, 9-2, to win the World Series in
6 games. In a remarkable post season, the Dodgers came from behind to
win 3 series (down 2-0 to Houston and 2-1 to Montreal in the best-of-5
series). Guerrero, Ron Cey and Steve Yeager (2 homeruns) are named co-MVPs,
while OF Dave Winfield and relief pitcher George Frazier are the goats for
New York. Winfield was just 1 for 21, while Frazier tied a WS record by
losing 3 games. The record was set by the White Sox Lefty Williams in 1919,
but Williams, one of the 8 "Black Sox," probably was losing on purpose.

1986
Former Phillies SS Larry Bowa is named manager of the Padres, replacing
Steve Boros.

1987
Saying "I've needed a baseball man at my side" Phils president Bill Giles
hires Woody Woodward. Giles had acted as GM.

1988
The Tigers trade P Walt Terrell to San Diego for versatile Keith Moreland
and 3B Chris Brown.

1989
The A's complete the sweep of the Giants in the earthquake-delayed Fall
Classic (first sweep since 1976) with a 9-6 victory. Dave Stewart, who wins
the series MVP, becomes the first hurler to win two games in both the LCS
and World Series.

1995
In a pitcher's duel, the Braves win game 6 of the Series, 1-0, on a combined
1-hitter by Tom Glavine and Mark Wohlers. David Justice's 6th-inning homer
(off Jim Poole) accounts for the game's only run. In winning, the Braves
become the 1st team to win World Championships representing three different
cities - Boston, Milwaukee and Atlanta. C Tony Pena's leadoff single in the
6th is Cleveland's only hit. Cleveland, which led the ML in homers and runs
scored, bats just .179, the lowest average for a six-games series since 1911.

1996
Ruben Sierra changes uniforms for the 3rd time this year when Detroit sends
the veteran to Cincy for two minor league players.

Pitcher Mark Gubicza, a KC Royal since 1981, is traded to the Angels for
DH Chili Davis. Gubicza is the last active player from the Royals' 1985
championship team. Gubicza will pitch just 4 2/3 innings in 1997 before
spending the rest of the year on the DL.

1998
The Philadelphia Phillies' top draft pick, Pat Burrell of Miami, wins the
Golden Spikes Award as the nation's outstanding amateur player.

2001
Curt Schilling, who named his son Gehrig, receives the 2001 Roberto Clemente
Award for his contributions to numerous charities, including ALS which is
better known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. The Diamondback right-hander, who
won the World Series opener yesterday, was selected due to his outstanding
baseball skills combined with devoted work within the community.

Arizona jumps out to a 2-0 Series lead as Randy Johnson hurls a 3-hit
shutout. Matt Williams hits a 3-run homer for the Diamondbacks. Andy Pettitte
takes the loss for New York. With his seventh-inning shot off Pettitte,
Williams becomes the first player in World Series history to hit homeruns
with three different teams. The Diamondback third baseman homered in the
Fall Classic for the Indians in 1997 and with the Giants in 1989.

Commissioner Bud Selig says it is possible that two major league teams
could be eliminated by the start of next season. The Montreal Expos, Florida
Marlins, Minnesota Twins and Tampa Bay Devil Rays are the teams mentioned
as most likely to be eliminated.

2002
The Mets, after being unable to get permission to talk to Lou Piniella
from Seattle and deciding not to wait ten days after the World Series for
the availability Giant skipper Dusty Baker, give Art Howe a four-year $9.4
million deal to manage the team. New York's new skipper led the A's to a
pair of AL West titles (2000, 2002) championships with his teams winning
383 games during the last four seasons matching Joe Torre's Yankee total.

The Marlins do not renew the contract of John Routh, the 43-year-old man who
has been Billy the Marlin, since the Florida's first game in 1993. Although
'Billy' will return next season, a new person will be hired to wear the
35-pound costume as the team seeks to increase the mascot's visibility by
changing the overall role of the character.

Signing the veteran manager to a four-year contract, the Devil Rays name Lou
Piniella as their team's new skipper. As compensation to sign 'Sweet Lou'
away from Seattle, Tampa Bay sends their All-Star outfielder Randy Winn
(.298, 14, 75) to Seattle for minor leaguer Antonio Perez.

2005
The Washington Nationals sign free agent IF Damian Jackson to a contract.

2007
With a 4-3 win over the Rockies at Coors Field, the Red Sox, for the
second time in four years, complete a four-game sweep to win the World
Series. Terry Francona becomes the first manager to win his first eight
games in the Fall Classic. In the middle of the game, SI.com reports Alex
Rodriguez has decided to opt out of his contract with the Yankees. The
timing of the announcement and being a no-show at the game to receive the
Hank Aaron Award, which honors the most outstanding offensive performer in
each league, is severely criticized by fans and the media.

2009
In game 1, Chase Utley, enroute to a record-tying five World Series homers,
becomes the first left-handed batter in 81 years to hit two round-trippers
off a southpaw in a Fall Classic game. The Philadelphia second baseman,
who also set a postseason record by reaching base in 26 straight games with
his first-inning walk, goes deep twice off Yankee southpaw CC Sabathia in
the Phillies' 6-1 victory in New York, to match Babe Ruth's performance in
the fourth and final game of the 1928 series.

2010
Prior to game 2 of the World Series at AT&T Park, Tim Wakefield receives the
Roberto Clemente Award, in recognition of his excellence as a ballplayer
and his commitment to the community. The 44-year-old Red Sox starter is
actively involved with "Pitching in for Kids," a nonprofit that provides
grants to improve the lives of children across New England.

2011
After being down by 10.5 games on August 25 for the NL Central Division lead,
the Cardinals beat the Rangers at Busch Stadium, 6-2, in Game 7 of the Fall
Classic to win their eleventh world championship in franchise history. In
Game 6, the Redbirds had been down to their last strike in both the ninth
and the 10th innings, but rallied to tie the score and eventually win the
game on David Freese's lead-off walk-off homerun to centerfield in the 11th.

2012
At a press conference held prior to Game 4 at Detroit's Comerica Park,
Clayton Kershaw is named the recipient of the 2012 Roberto Clemente Award,
an honor given to a major leaguer who demonstrates the value of helping
others by his action off the field. The Dodger right-hander and his wife,
Ellen, founded the Kershaw Challenge which includes its cornerstone charity,
"Arise Africa," that helps the couple to build and sustain an orphanage
in Lusaka, Zambia known as "Hope's Home."

2013
In the fifth game of the World Series, Red Sox first baseman David Ortiz
ties Billy Hatcher's 1990 World Series record, reaching base in his ninth
consecutive plate appearance with a fourth-inning single to extend the
streak that began in Game 3. 'Big Papi', the Fall Classic MVP, will hit
.688 with a .760 on-base percentage in the six-game series, helping Boston
to secure its third World Championship in the past decade.

