Oct 29

1919
Urged by Johnson, the National Commission, headed by Pirate Garry Herrmann,
refuses to recognize the Yankees' 3rd-place finish and withholds the players'
share of the pool. New York's owners will pay out of their own pockets.

1920
In a move less heralded than the acquisition of Babe Ruth earlier in
the year, the Yankees hire Red Sox skipper Ed Barrow to be the team's
general manager. Under the future Hall of Famer's leadership over the next
quarter-century, the Bronx Bombers will win 14 American League pennants
and 10 World Series championships. Hugh Duffy replaces Barrow in Boston.

1928
The Giants trade Lefty O'Doul to the Phillies in exchange for an outfielder
named Freddy Leach. O'Doul, who started his career as a left-handed pitcher,
will lead the league in hitting with a .398 batting average next season
and will be the runner-up for the MVP to Rogers Hornsby.

1930
The Giants sell Wally Roettger to the Cincinnati Reds.

1931
Lefty Grove, the A's P who won 31 games, is named the AL's MVP. He led the
league in strikeouts for the 7th straight season and topped all pitchers
in winning percentage, ERA and complete games.

1942
Branch Rickey, the innovator of the farm systems which helped to build a
strong Redbird franchise, resigns as the Cardinals' vice president. Three
days later, the Dodgers will announce the Mahatma has been named president
of the Brooklyn club, a move that will help to fill the void created by
Brooklyn general manager Larry MacPhail's enlistment in the army to serve
in World War II.

1945
Happy Chandler, who had continued to serve in the U.S. Senate after becoming
commissioner, resigns his political office. He will presently move the
commissioner's quarters to Cincinnati.

1957
The Dodgers sign former manager Charley Dressen as a coach.

1959
The Nankai Hawks of the Pacific League win the Japanese WS by sweeping the
Yomiuri Giants 4-0.

Early Wynn of the White Sox wins the Cy Young Award, getting 13 of the
16 votes.

1962
Branch Rickey rejoins the Cardinals as a senior consultant for player
development.

The Yankees sell Bob Turley (82-52 in 8 years with NY) to the LA Angels.

1969
Tom Seaver is voted the NL Cy Young Award.

The Phillies again sign Jim Bunning, who was released by the Dodgers. The
veteran will win 10 games for the Phillies in 1970.

1975
As their overwhelming choice, the Baseball Writers Association of American
selects Fred Lynn (.331, 21, 105) as the American League Rookie of the
Year. The 22-year-old Red Sox all-star outfielder receives 23 1/2 out 24
first place votes with teammate Jim Rice getting the other 1/2.

1979
Hall of Fame outfielder Willie Mays, one of the game's most popular players,
severs all ties with major league baseball when he accepts a public relations
job with an Atlantic City casino. Due to the gambling aspect of the position,
he had been given an ultimatum by Commissioner Bowie Kuhn to disassociate
himself from the national pastime.

1981
Bill Giles, Phillies vice president for the past 11 years, heads a group of
investors which purchases the club for just over $30 million, the highest
price paid to date for a ML club. Giles is the son of longtime NL president
Warren C. Giles.

1985
Cardinal pitcher Joaquin Andujar is suspended for the first ten games of
next season as a result of bumping Don Denkinger twice during his World
Series game 7 dispute with the home plate umpire over balls and strikes calls.

1986
Padres pitcher LaMarr Hoyt is arrested at the U.S.-Mexico border for
possession of illegal drugs, the 3rd time he has been arrested on drug
charges. He will be sentenced to 45 days in jail on December 16th.

1987
Dallas Green unexpectedly resigns as president and general manager of the
Cubs, citing "philosophical differences" with the Tribune Company, which
owns the club.

1991
Buck Showalter replaces Stump Merrill as the Yankee manager. During his
four-year reign as the Bronx Bomber skipper, the 36-year-old will compile a
313-268 (.539) record capturing the American League Manager of the Year award
and AL East title in 1994 and the league's first wild card the following year.

1996
The Expos trade pitchers Jeff Fassero and Alex Pacheco to the Mariners in
exchange for C Chris Widger, and Ps Matt Wagner and Trey Moore.

Ewell Blackwell, 74, dies. He was a six-time All-Star pitcher for the
Cincinnati Reds and came within two outs of throwing consecutive no-hitters
in 1947 while leading the NL in wins and strikeouts that season.

2001
Commissioner Bud Selig says major league baseball is considering eliminating
two teams by the start of next season. Contraction would include the Montreal
Expos and either the Minnesota Twins or the Florida Marlins.

2002
The Athletics name coach Ken Macha as their new manager, replacing Art Howe.

The Indians name Eric Wedge as their new manager. At 35, he is the youngest
manager in the ML. Two players on the Indians' roster - Ellis Burks and
Omar Vizquel - are older than Wedge.

The Brewers name Ned Yost as their new manager.

2003
Barry Bonds wins his record 11th Silver Slugger Award, given to the top
offensive players in each league.

2005
The Dodgers abruptly shift from a manager search to a general manager search
dismissing Paul DePodesta two years into his five-year contract. Owner
Frank McCourt delivers the news to DePodesta in the morning and holds an
afternoon press conference.

2006
Silas Simmons, the oldest baseball player who ever lived, passes away at
St. Petersburg's Westminster Suncoast retirement community in Florida. The
111-year-old was a southpaw hurler in the Negro Leagues for 17 years and
played for the Homestead Grays, New York Lincoln Giants and Cuban All-Stars.

2008
Playing three innings at Citizens Bank Park, the Phillies complete the
first-ever suspended game in World Series history beating the Rays, 4-3,
in game 5 to win the Fall Classic. It is only the second World Championship
in franchise history, and the first since 1980.

2009
Derek Jeter is the recipient of this year's Roberto Clemente Award, an honor
given to a player who best exemplifies the game of baseball, sportsmanship
and community involvement. The 35-year-old Yankee captain joins 13 Hall of
Famers and former Bronx Bombers Ron Guidry and Don Baylor in winning the
prestigious prize.

2010
Sandy Alderson is officially introduced as the Mets' new general manager at
a Citi Field news conference. The 62-year-old Harvard Law School graduate,
who has served as the former president and GM of the A's and chief executive
officer of the Padres, is being allowed to leave his current administrative
position with MLB to take the challenging role of rebuilding the directionless
organization, that includes the hiring of a new manager for the team.

Joe Girardi finalizes a new three-year contract with the Yankees to remain
the team's manager. During the season it had been rumored that the Illinois
native and former Cub catcher might have an interest to replace the retiring
Lou Piniella as the Chicago skipper, a position recently filled by interim
Mike Quade.

2012
In the Tigers' 5-4 victory over Kansas City at Comerica Park, Doug Fister
establishes a new American League record when he strikes out nine consecutive
batters, one shy of Tom Seaver's major league mark. The Detroit right-hander
whiffs the last batter in the fourth frame, strikes out the side in the
next two innings, and continues the streak until Salvador Perez, his first
victim, grounds out to the shortstop on a 1-2 pitch to end the seventh inning.

2013
Jose Abreu, who defected from Cuba last summer, has finalized a $68-million
six-year deal with the White Sox. The 26-year-old slugger, who batted .360
(9 for 25) with three homeruns and nine RBIs for his island nation during
the World Baseball Classic in March, is projected to play first base or to be
the team's designated hitter, helping to bolster a weak offense that scored
the fewest runs in the American League this season, enroute to a 63-99 record.

