Jul 27

1904
John McGraw and John T. Brush say they have no intention of playing a
post-season series with the AL champions. "The Giants will not play a post
season series with the American League champions. Ban Johnson has not been
on the level with me personally, and the American League management has
been crooked more than once." says McGraw. "When we clinch the NL pennant,
we'll be champions of the only real major league," Ban Johnson fires back,
"No thoughtful patron of baseball can weigh seriously the wild vaporings of
this discredited player who was canned from the American League." As the
New York Highlanders battle for the AL pennant, local pressure mounts,
but Brush, still angry over the interleague peace treaty, and McGraw,
who despises Ban Johnson, are adamant.

The Tigers purchase C Monte Beville from the Highlanders to replace Bob
Wood, who dislocated an elbow yesterday when he slipped trying to field a
bunt against the A's (as noted by Lyle Spatz).

1906
At St. Louis, Boston Red Sox pitcher Bill Dinneen allows only an O'Brien
single in beating the Browns, 1-0.

1908
Following the Sunday off, Wagner hits doubles in his first 2 at-bats to
again lead the Pirates to a 4-3 win over New York. Nick Maddox, with relief
help from Irv Young, is the winner over Doc Crandall. Both Maddox and Young
plunk two Giant batters.

1909
At Boston the 3rd place Giants split with the Doves, losing the opener,
7-4, then taking the nitecap, 6-2. In the 2nd contest, Mathewson wins for
the 13th straight time, beating Forrest More.

The Phillies sweep a pair from Brooklyn, winning 7-0 and 3-2. Light hitting
Eddie Grant collects his 1st ML HR, off Deacon Phillippe.

Star minor league pitcher Grover Cleveland Alexander is hit in the forehead
with a ball while running the bases and is knocked unconscious. Alexander
will recover but his vision will be affected for months and he will not
pitch again for Galesburg. The Indianapolis Indians purchase his contract.

1911
Three days after the Cards light up Alexander for 5 runs in the 1st inning,
the Phillies rookie ace stops them, 4-3.

1914
Red Sox ace Dutch Leonard shuts out Cleveland, 3-0. He is helped by Tris
Speaker, who has 2 singles and a triple. Speaker also makes 8 put-outs in
CF, on his way to a record 423 for the year.

The Athletics win their 12th consective game, beating host Detroit, 8-3,
and scoring 3 runs in the first inning without a hit. Jean Dubuc hits
2 A's batters, makes a throwing error, and his teammates chip in with 2
errors to give Philadelphia the 3 runs. Frank Baker has 3 hits including
a double and a triple to back Hereb Pennock's pitching. Detroit will beat
Philadelphia tomorrow.

The Reds just nip Brooklyn, 6-5, as starter Elmer Brown walks 4 straight
and his reliever Johnny Enzmann duplicates the feat, all within the first
three innings.

PCL president Allen Baum says he will rigidly investigate charges that
umpires have gambled on games. Accusations surfaced following a fight
yesterday in Sacramento between umpire Held and Harl Maggert.

1915
The Senators score the game's only run in the 1st when Clyde Milan swipes home
against Cleveland pitcher Rip Hagerman. Hagerman allows just two hits in a
losing effort, while Washington pitcher Bert Gallia gives up just one safety.

1918
Brooklyn takes the first of two games against last-place St. Louis, winning
2-0, behind the 6-hit pitching of Dick Robertson. Mickey Doolin leads
the Superbas with 3 hits and a stolen base. The nitecap is another story:
Brooklyn starts rookie righthander Harry Heitmann, the IL Iron man, who
pitched two doubleheaders at Rochester. Heitmann is stationed in Brooklyn
by the Navy. The young sailor is swamped with two triples and two singles
in the first 5 batters and is relieved by Burleigh Grimes. It's Heitmann's
first and last ML appearance, leaving him with a career ERA of 108.00. (TSN
shows Heitmann with 1/3 IP, while the NY Times and NY Telegram list him
as retiring no batters.) St. Louis tallies 26 hits in racking up a 22-7
slugfest win. Bob Fisher, Gene Paulette, Hornsby and McHenry each score
4 runs. Fisher collects a triple and a homer, while George Anderson has a
double and two triples to go along with his single. Winning pitcher Bill
Sherdel only lasts to the 5th, but has a sacrifice fly and hits a 2-run
homer over RF Jack Coombs' head. In the 7th, Coombs relieves losing pitcher
Burleigh Grimes and in 3 innings allows 12 hits and 10 runs.

At Braves Field, Hippo Vaughn holds the Braves to 4 singles, while his Chicago
teammates tally 11 hits to beat Boston, 7-1. With the bases loaded and 2 outs
in the first, an errant throw by 3B Red Smith opens the door for 4 Chicago
runs. The Cubs score all their runs in the first 4 frames off Dick Rudolph.

At the Polo Grounds, the Pirates take the first game in the series with the
Giants, 8-4. The Bucs score 5 in the 7th after Larry Doyle fumbles a ball
which should have been the 3rd out. Frank "Bullet" Miller is the winner
over Bill Demaree.

Detroit's Bill James, pitching his last game before joining the Army,
loses to the A's, 5-3. James is ordered to report to his Ann Arbor draft
board tomorrow. John Watson picks up the win for Philadelphia.

Cincinnati wins two from the Phillies, 14-5 and 3-0. Matty's men rack up 20
hits in the opener and steal 8 bases, including 4 in the first inning. Greasy
Neale has 3 stolen bases, while Sherry Magee has 4 hits and 2 steals. Sherry
has another 3 hits in the nitecap to back Mike Regan's 4-hit shutout.

In two Steel League tilts, Eddie Plank outduels Dutch Leonard to win, 1-0,
in Steelton, Pa. In Philadelphia, Bethlehem wins over Lebanon, 1-0, behind the
pitching of Jeff Tesreau. Former Yank hurler Jeff Buckles buckles in the 8th.

1919
With a hit in his 50th straight Western League contest, Wichita Jobbers
outfielder Joe Wilhoit, enroute to a 69-game streak, surpasses Jack Ness for
the longest consecutive-game hitting streak in the history of professional
baseball. Ness' mark, established four years earlier playing first base
for the Oakland Oaks, will remain the Pacific Coast League record until
Joe DiMaggio hits in 61 straight for the San Francisco Seals in 1933.

In his first start for the Giants, Phil Douglas rocks the Robins, 7-2.

In St. Louis, the Cubs' Grover Alexander stops the Cardinals, 4-0.

Before a packed house in Cincinnati, the Reds win a pair from the Pirates,
5-3 and 2-1. The 2nd game goes only 3 innings, being the continuation of
a July 6th game, called at the end of 6 innings to let the Reds catch a
train for Boston. The Giants protest this game, saying it should have gone
9 innings. Slim Sallee wins the opener, walking none, and allowing 11 hits.

1920
Virgil Barnes bats, runs and pitches the Giants to an 8-1 win over the
Cardinals. Barnes has 3 hits and, in the 6th, reaches 3B where he and
Dave Bancroft, on 1B, pull off a double steal. When Dillhoefer's throw
is mishandled - one of 6 St. Louis errors (3 by Austin McHenry in LF) -
Bancroft takes 3B. When the next batter reaches 1B, the Giants try a double
steal again, but this time Bancroft gets hung up and is put out. Hornsby
is spiked covering 1B in the 2nd frame and is replaced by Knode. The Rajah
will miss several games.

At League Park, the Senators and Indians split a pair, with the Tribe taking
the opener, 5-4, and getting blasted in the nitecap, 19-6. Charley Jamieson
makes 4 spectacular catches in LF to support Guy Morton's pitching in the
lidlifter. On their way to 19, the Nats then unload 9 runs in the 2nd inning
of game 2, with Joe Judge and Braggo Roth scoring 4 apiece.

1921
In an exhibition game in Cincinnati, Babe Ruth is 3 for 5 with 6 RBIs. One
of his hits is a homer to dead center, the first ball ever to clear the CF
fence at Crosley Field. In his next at-bat, Ruth hits an even longer smash
that reaches the bleachers in dead CF. The next to clear the CF wall will
be Ethan Allen in 1929. Ruth strikes out on 3 change-ups against rookie P
Pete Donohue, who is so excited he goes to the wrong bench. For Donohue,
he will later say this was one of his most memorable moments.

Before the start of Washington's game with the White Sox, a 5-4 victory,
Senators manager George McBride is knocked unconscious by a thrown ball and
when he is revived his lower jaw is temporarily paralyzed. McBride will be
sent home to recover from the concussion and, suffering vertigo, will not
return full time. Team captain Clyde Milan will take over most of the managing
duties assisted by Walter Johnson, and next year he takes the managing job.

1922
Vangilder gives up a HR to Pipp in the 4th but leads, 2-1, going into
the 8th inning. The Yankees jump on the Browns' starter and Kolp for 4
runs before the Browns tie with 3 in the 9th. Dave Danforth comes on and
throws Fred Hofman a pitch "that sailed a foot." When Brick Owens exams
the ball, he rules it was doctored, earning Danforth an automatic 10-day
suspension. Reliever Wayne Wright comes on and serves up a game-winning HR
to Wally Schang. Yanks win, 6-5.

1927
Behind Vic Aldridge's 5-hitter, the Pirates tip the Dodgers, 2-1, and take
over undisputed possession of 1st place. Again the Bucs win it in the 8th,
beating Dazzy Vance.

1928
In Chicago, Ty Cobb returns to the A's lineup after being out for 9 days
when hit on the wrist by a pitch. Cobb singles and doubles, and is then
hit in the chest by a pitch from Sarge Connally.

1930
In the most efficient relief appearance in history, Cincinnati hurler Ken
Ash comes in for Larry Benton and throws just one pitch against the Chicago
Cubs. With the Reds trailing 3-2 in the top of the 6th, Ash's pitch to
Charlie Grimm results in a 4-5-2-3-5 triple play. All three outs come on
tags, with 3B Tony Cuccinello making 2 putouts. Ash is hauled for a pinch
hitter in the bottom of the 6th and the Reds score 4 times, then hold on
for a 6-5 win. Ash receives credit for the victory, his last (of 6) in the
ML. Mike Marshall will duplicate the one pitch-three outs in the 1970s.

1931
Riggs Stephenson, Cubs OF, breaks an ankle in the 1st inning against the
Phillies as Chicago loses, 7-6, at Wrigley Field. Riggs turns the ankle
stepping on 1B.

At Boston, Detroit's Tommy Bridges K's the side in the 1st, but collapses in
the 4th and loses, 13-4. Tiger SS Mark Koenig comes in to pitch the last 2
innings and holds the Sox runless. Danny MacFayden, who started yesterday's
game 1, starts today and wins.

1932
Pittsburgh's Bill Harris gets two wins today, both in relief against the
Giants, and the Pirates increase their lead over the Cubs to 5 games. Harris
tosses three innings in the opening 9-8 win, and another two in the
nitecap. The Pirates score 3 in the 9th to win, 4-2.

1933
Cy Blanton of Saint Joseph (Western League) pitches a 9-0 no-hitter against
Joplin. Blanton strikes out 20 batters, while his teammates record no
assists in the field. Blanton will lead the NL in ERA in 2 years.

1935
Despite hitting a grand slam, Lefty Grove loses a tough game, 7-6, to
the A's in 15 innings. The Red Sox come back in the nitecap to win, 2-0,
behind Wes Ferrell.

1936
Under rainy conditions at Ebbets Field, the Dodgers thrill a crowd of 485
by routing Cy Blanton and beating the Pirates for the 3rd straight time,
6-3. Fred Frankhouse has only one bad inning - the 3rd in which the Bucs make
all their runs on 6 hits - in winning his 6th against 8 losses. Frankhouse
has 5 assists while SS Frey has none.

The A's knock out Vern Kennedy and then break an 8-8 tie with 7 runs in the
9th to win, 15-8. Russ Evans in the loser to Harry Kelley. The A's collect
25 hits including 5 by Lou Finney.

In an exhibition game against a semi-pro shoe company, Paul Dean is hammered
for six hits and 4 runs in 4 innings. The Cards then rally with Flint Rhem
and Pepper Martin on the mound to win, 8-5. A tearful Dean threatens to
quit after the rout.

1938
Hank Greenberg of the Tigers, who had hit HRs his last 2 at-bats the
day before, a 6-1 win over the Senators at home, homers in his first 2
times up to tie the ML record of 4 in a row. Detroit whips the Nats, 9-4.
The Tiger first baseman will hit 2 HRs in one game a record-setting eleven
times during the season.

In a raucous game in Brooklyn, pop bottles fly as the Cubs shell the Dodgers,
10-8, scoring twice in the 9th. Manager Burleigh Grimes and captain Leo
Durocher are tossed after protesting an out call at 2B that would have
loaded the sacks for the Dodgers. When Billy Jurges appears to muff a DP
ball at the keystone sack, umpire Bill Klem, who is close to the action,
calls him out on a signal from 3B ump Ziggy Sears. That results in the pop
bottles flying, and Sears tossing the 2 protesting Dodgers. It also results
in Larry MacPhail complaining after the game that Klem missed a call 10 feet
away and he was demanding a meeting with the umps and Ford Frick. Catcher
Gilly Campbell has 3 hits but allows Hack (who will lead the NL with 16) and
Galan to steal a base while he argues with umpire Ballanfant that a pitch
should have been strike 3 and not ball 4. It was strike 3. Rip Collins has
4 hits and 3 RBIs for Chicago.

At Boston, Reds pitcher Paul Derringer and Wally Berger homer in the 3rd
inning, off Jim Turner, to help beat the Boston Bees, 6-2. For Derringer, who
allows 5 hits, it is his first ML homer. His 2nd and last will come this year.

1939
The Dodgers acquire Louisville shortstop Pee Wee Reese, sending the Red Sox
a reported $75,000 and 4 players to be named. Pitcher Red Evans (21-14 for
New Orleans in 1938) and OF Art Parks plus two minor leaguers eventually
trade uniforms. Tom Yawkey, one of three partners who bought the Louisville
team for $100,000, voted against the sale ... his partners, Donie Bush and
Frank McKinney, voted for the sale.

1940
Bob Feller wins his 16th in pitching the Indians to a 13-2 win over the
Senators. Feller fans four and, for the first time in his career, does not
walk a batter. He also collects a pair of doubles. The Indians now trail
the league-leading Tigers by a half-game.

1942
The New York Daily Worker announces that Pittsburgh Pirates owner Benny
Benswanger will arrange a tryout for Roy Campanella, Sammy T. Hughes and
David Barnhill. In August, Campanella and Hughes will jump their team during
a tight pennant race to "showcase" for the ML.

1943
In St. Louis the Cards sweep a pair from the Phillies, 6-2 and 5-2, to
drop Philadelphia to 7th place. Murry Dickson and Howie Crist pitch for the
Redbirds, now winners of 11 straight. Al Gerheauser suffers his 10th defeat,
while Dick Conger takes the nitecap loss. Dixie Walker, with four hits in
the 2nd game, and Stan Musial with a homer, are the hitting stars.

The Phillies new owner Bill Cox, 33, fires manager Bucky Harris. who
was hired prior to the season, and replaces him with Brooklyn P Freddie
Fitzsimmons. Harris learns of the firing when a reporter calls him. In New
York, Cox makes the announcement without ever mentioning Harris.

1944
The first-place Cards sweep a doubleheader from Philadelphia to push their
lead over Cincinnati to 14 1/2 games. Mort Cooper runs his record to 11-1
by winning 5-0 in the nitecap. Harry Brecheen opened with an 8-7 win in
the first game.

1945
Hal Newhouser shuts out the White Sox as first-place Detroit, wins, 1-0. Eddie
Mayo hits a 9th-inning walk-off homer off Johnny Humphries for the victory;
it is the 2nd time in two years Humphries has served up a 9th inning homer
to lose a shutout.

The Cubs purchase P Hank Borowy from the New York Yankees in an unexpected
waiver deal, confounding fans and the other AL teams. Borowy, 10-5 with
the Yankees, was put on waivers, apparently to solve a roster problem, and
was passed over by all 7 AL teams who assumed the Yanks would pull him back
if claimed. The Cubs snatch him for $97,500, and he will help the Cubs win
the pennant with an 11-2 record, including 3 wins over the Cardinals down
the stretch.

1946
Rudy York of Boston hits grand-slam HRs in the 2nd and 5th innings off Tex
Shirley of the St. Louis Browns, as the Red Sox win 13-6. Only Tony Lazzeri
(1936, Yankees) and Jim Tabor (1939, Red Sox) have accomplished this feat
before York. York also adds a 2-run double to knock in 10 runs. York leaves
a runner in the 7th when he strikes out and two more in the 9th, when he
hits into a double play. He had 5 RBIs against the Browns yesterday.

1947
When Jake Jones of the Red Sox hits a foul ball along the 3B line in the 6th,
Browns P Fred Sanford throws his glove at the ball to prevent it from rolling
into fair territory. Umpire Cal Hubbard awards Jones a triple on the basis
of the rule about intentionally thrown gloves. In 1954 the rule is changed
so that it only applies to fair balls. But it's too late for the Browns as
Jones scores after his triple and the Red Sox win, 4-3. Boston takes the
nitecap, 11-2, to move 2 games ahead of 3rd place Detroit. Winning hurler
Boo Ferriss has 3 hits and scores twice.

At Pittsburgh, the Dodgers scuttle the Pirates twice, winning 8-4 and 11-4,
to extend their lead to 7 games. Robinson and Reese homer in the nitecap and
Frankie Gustine has 2 hits in each game to extend his hit streak to 20 games.

1948
In his ML debut with the Browns, St. Louis native Hank Arft bangs a triple
and a HR off Frank Hiller, the first major leaguer to debut with two long
hits. Arft drives in 3 runs as the host Browns top New York, 4-0. Tomorrow's
cheers of "Arft, Arft" will give Hank his nickname "Bow Wow."

A Tiger-record night crowd of 54,609 see Ellis Kinder and the Red Sox top
Hal Newhouser, 8-0.

At Philadelphia the Cubs tip the Phillies, 3-2, with the win going to Hank
Borowy in relief. Cubs 2B Gene Mauch helps by nabbing Dick Sisler with a
hidden ball trick in the 2nd inning.

1949
Three homers are lost in a rain-shortened game at Yankee Stadium between
the Yankees and the Indians (as noted in Retrosheet). In the bottom of the
first, Tommy Henrich homers off Cleveland's Bob Feller with two on and no one
out. In the top of the second, Joe Gordon bangs a solo shot with one out off
Ed Lopat. One inning later, Cleveland pitcher Sam Zoldak hits a solo homer
with one out off Lopat. Zoldak loses his only career homer with the washout.

1950
Former Dodger great Kirby "Koiby" Higbe hurls a no-hitter for the Minneapolis
Millers American Association against the Columbus Clippers.

Philadelphia's Del Ennis cracks a double in the 7th and a grand slam in
the 8th inning to drive in 7 runs against the Cubs as the Phils win, 13-3,
at home. Philadelphia will win 11 of their next 15 games to hold 1st place
by 4 games over the Braves.

Stan Musial goes hitless to end his 30-game hit streak. But everyone else
in the Cards lineup has a safety as St. Louis dusts the Dodgers, 13-3.

1951
The White Sox, now 3 1/2 games behind New York and Boston, open a 4-game
series in New York. Trailing 3-1 in the 9th, the Sox make it 4-3 before rain
and the Yankees delay the game. Gil McDougald is thrown out for stalling,
and Casey Stengel uses 5 pitchers in the inning. Finally, the score reverts
to the 8th inning and the Yanks win as the game is called after 30 minutes.

After two shutouts over the Cards, Bubba Church gives the Phils' staff their
3rd in a row, stopping Chicago, 2-0. It is Church's 8th straight over the
Cubs and Chicago's 9th straight loss at Wrigley.

1953
Dizzy Dean and Al Simmons are inducted into the Hall of Fame at
Cooperstown. Along with them, the veterans committee enshrines Chief Bender,
Bobby Wallace, 19th-century manager Harry Wright, executive Ed Barrow and
umpires Bill Klem and Tom Connolly.

1956
3B Hector Lopez and 1B Vic Power of the Athletics each have 5 hits in a
14-inning 10-9 loss to New York. Kansas City collects 26 hits in the loss.

Gil Hodges scores from 2B on a bunt by Campanella to clip the Cubs, 4-3,
in 10 innings, as the Dodgers move to 5 games behind the Braves. Campy's
bunt is trapped by 3B Hoak, who throws him out at 1B. The Cubs then get
Amoros, who had been on 1B in a rundown, and Hodges scores. The Cubs had
worked the play successfully in the 9th.

1959
The Continental League is formally announced, with franchises located
in Denver, Houston, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York City and Toronto (and
interest in 11 other cities). The concept of the new major league is the
brainchild of William Shea, an attorney who proposed the idea a year after
the Giants and Dodgers left New York City to move to the West Coast. It
envisions beginning play in 1961. New York City says it will build a stadium
at the Flushing Meadow Park site.

The Dodgers move into first place on Roger Craig's 2-0 win. Joe Pignatano
and Don Zimmer hit solo HRs. A year ago on this date the Dodgers were in
last place.

At Detroit, Baltimore's Gene Woodling drives in 5 runs, 4 on a grand slam off
Bunning, in the O's 5-2 win. Woodling drove in all 4 runs in yesterday's 4-0
win against Chicago. Baltimore native Barry Shetrone is 2 for 4 with a triple
for the O's. Shetrone is the first home-grown player to play for the Birds.

1961
Vada Pinson gives the Reds a 2-1 win over the Braves when he swipes home
in the 9th inning. Pitcher Carlton Willey's throw beats Pinson but he kicks
the ball out of the glove of C Sammy White.

The Giants' Juan Marichal fires his first shutout of the year, stopping the
Pirates, 2-0, on 5 hits. Manager Dark says before the game that "Marichal
will go all the way" and keeps his relief pitchers in the dugout to emphasis
the point.

1963
The Mets hand Jimmy Piersall his release and the veteran outfielder will
sign with the Angels. New York then loses to Houston, 1-0, as Bob Bruce
shuts them out. Mets 1B Frank Thomas pulls a hidden ball trick on Jimmy Wynn.

1964
In the first clash of tenth-place teams in major league history, the
Senators prevail beating the Mets in the Hall of Fame exhibition game,
6-4. The Cooperstown combatants will collectively lose 209 games this season,
but Washington will climb out of the cellar to finish ahead of Kansas City.

The Hall of Fame inducts seven new members swelling the ranks of the
25-year-old institution to 101. The recent inductees include Luke Appling,
voted in by the BBWAA, along with spitballers Burliegh Grimes and Urban
Faber, pre-1900 era players Tim Keefe and John Montgomery, life-time .330
hitter Heinie Manush, and skipper Miller Huggins, who were all selected by
the 12-man Veterans Committee in February.

Reds manager Fred Hutchinson enters a Cincinnati hospital for further cancer
treatment. Dick Sisler takes the helm.

1965
The Braves use 15 hits indowing the host Astros, 7-1. Tony Cloninger is
the victor, helping himself with a triple. For the second game in a row,
Felipe Alou leads off with a homerun.

At Boston, the Royals rake a pair from the Red Sox, winning 7-3 and
10-8. Young Tony Conigliaro has a pair of homers for Boston in game 1 and
a grand slam in game 2.

The Orioles waive veteran Robin Roberts, who was dissatisfied with not
being a starting pitcher.

The official number of foreigners permitted on each Japanese team is lowered
from 3 to 2. The Yomiuri Giants announce they will henceforth have no
foreigners - a policy that lasts until 1975, when they sign 2B Davey Johnson.

1966
The Wisconsin Supreme Court overrules a lower court decision and holds
that the state doesn't have the jurisdiction to keep the Braves from moving
to Atlanta.

In Los Angeles, Jim Bunning and Sandy Koufax battle for 11 innings before
both exit with the score locked at 1-1. Koufax allows 4 hits and fans 16,
while Bunning gives up 6 hits and K's 12. L.A. eventually tops the Phillies,
2-1, in 16 innings.

1968
In Baltimore, Denny McLain (20-3) shuts out the Orioles, 9-0, for his
20th win of the season for the first-place Tigers. McLain is only the 3rd
pitcher in history to win his 20th this early:  Rube Marquard on July 19,
1912 and Lefty Grove on July 25, 1931 were the others.

1969
Seattle suffers another heartbreaker, losing 5-3 to Boston in 20 innings at
Sicks Stadium. Joe Lahoud hits a 2-run HR in the top of the 20th for Boston,
and Tommy Harper matches in the bottom of the inning for the losers. Jim
Lonborg is the winner.

In the team's biggest shutout victory ever, Baltimore routs the White Sox,
17-0, as Jim Hardin wins over Billy Wynne. Hardin allows just two hits while
the Birds bang out 20, good for 39 total bases. Frank Robinson drives in
5 runs and hits a pair of homers.

Broadway producer David Merrick opines in the New York Times on what he told
Yankee prexy Michael Burke on Opening Day:  Nude players was the only thing
that could save the Yankees. It would increase Ladies Day attendance, he
jokes. Getting serious, Merrick also writes that baseball needs a two-platoon
system on defense and offense ala football and unlimited substitutions. And
off the field, Merrick thinks it needs more color. "There's not enough
showmanship in baseball. It is show business, isn't it? I don't think
baseball is dead by any means. But it needs things. In the theatre we're
always thinking of the audience. But in baseball they're unmindful of the
audience ... I like the idea of having a pinch hitter for the pitcher,
one of the things they were trying this spring."

1970
The Yankees defeat California, 5-2, behind Mel Stottlemyre, who is helped
by shortstop Gene Michael in the 9th. With the score tied, Michael pulls
the hidden ball trick on Angel pinch-runner Jarvis Tatum. The Yanks score
3 in the 10th to win.

The Expos beat the White Sox, 10-6, in the annual Hall of Fame game,
following the induction ceremonies for Lou Boudreau, Earle Combs, Ford
Frick and Jesse Haines.

1971
Hal McRae collects a homer, three doubles and a single to lead the Reds to
an 11-3 win over the Padres. His 4 long hits ties a club record.

Bill Buckner hits his 1st grand slam as the Dodgers score 6 in the 7th
inning to beat Pittsburgh, 8-5. Dock Ellis takes his first loss after 12
straight wins.

1972
Marking the debut of manager Whitey Lockman, Fergie Jenkins allows one hit in
the Cubs' 4-0 win over the Phillies. Willie Montanez' 4th inning double is the
only hit. Reliever Jack Aker falters in the nitecap, and the Phils win, 4-1.

1973
Thurman Munson singles home the winner in the bottom of the 12th to give
the Yankees a 1-0 win over Brewers starter Jim Colborn.

In the first game of a twinbill, Cleveland's George Hendrick singles in
the 8th to stop Jim Palmer's no-hit bid. Palmer and the O's coast to a 9-0
win. The Tribe takes the nitecap, 5-2, with Bob Reynolds getting the W.

The Reds wallop the Braves, 12-2, as Johnny Bench drives home six runs with
a pair of homers. Joe Morgan has no hits but scores 4 runs.

1975
The Mets release OF Cleon Jones, following a suspension for
insubordination. He will not be picked up by another team this year, but
will play for the White Sox in 1976.

In the first of a twinbill at Shea Stadium, Red Sox CF Fred Lynn makes a
great running catch to save the game for pitcher Bill Lee. Lee wins, 1-0,
and then Roger Moret completes the whitewash with a 6-0 nitecap win. The
losses seem to finish the Yanks pennant hopes and Bill Virdon's managing job.

1977
The Cubs' Rick Reuschel tosses his 2nd shutout in a row, beating the Reds,
3-0 on a 5-hitter.

1978
The Yankees win the first game of a doubleheader 11-0, but the Indians rebound
to win the 2nd, 17-5. Duane Kuiper ties the ML record with 2 bases-loaded
triples in the nightcap, only the 3rd player (after Bill Bruton and Elmer
Valo) to do so in the 20th century. He hits one in the 1st and another in
the 5th inning.

Mike Cubbage is 4 for 4, hitting for the cycle, to lead the Twins to a 6-3
win over Toronto.

1979
The Brewers edge the Yankees, 6-5, and Cecil Cooper becomes the 4th AL
player this month to hit 3 HRs in a game.

The Cubs top the Mets at Shea Stadium, 4-2, behind Dave Kingman's 2 homeruns.

1980
The Cubs and Dodgers battle for 12 innings before the Dodgers prevail,
3-2. Rudy Law singles, steals 2B, advances to 3B on the overthrow, and
scores on a sac fly. There are no walks in the game, a NL record for an
extra inning contest.

1982
Against California, Oakland's Rickey Henderson steals his 95th base but gets
caught stealing 3 times in an 8-7 13 inning California win. Not since 1916,
has an American Leaguer been thrown out 3 times in a game. Rickey will be
thrown out 42 times this year, breaking the mark of 38 caught steals set
by Ty Cobb in 1915. Bob Boone, who is behind the plate, homers for the
Angels. Reggie Jackson and Brian Downing homer and Jax adds 2 doubles.

1983
While picking up his first win as a member of the Royals, Gaylord Perry
joins Nolan Ryan and Steve Carlton as the 3rd pitcher this season to reach
3,500 career strikeouts, fanning 4 Indians in a 5-4 victory to raise his
total to 3,501.

In Arlington, Virginia the Democrats and Republicans reach an agreement in the
9th inning to terminate their Congressional game with the score tied at 17-17.

1984
Pete Rose passes Ty Cobb as the all-time singles leader when he collects
his 3,053rd off Steve Carlton in the 7th inning of a 6-1 Expo victory over
the Phillies. The Montreal switch-hitter, who will also pass the 'Georgia
Peach' to become the all-time hit leader, ends his 24-year career with
3,215 one-base hits.

The Red Sox and Tigers almost match shutouts, as the Tigers win, 9-1, and
the Red Sox come back, 4-0. Rich Gedman's 9th inning homer in the opener
off Dan Petry is the only Sox score. Wade Boggs lines 4 hits and Bob Ojeda
allows just 3 hits in the nitecap to win.

At LA, Gary Redus singles in the 1st and 9th, the only hits given up by Bob
Welch as the Dodgers beat the Reds, 1-0. Hume loses on an unearned run in
the 6th.

1985
For the second time in a week, the Mets win, 16-4, this time pounding the
Astros in the opener of a twinbill sweep. They break a 4-4 tie in the 7th
with a fielder's choice by Hernandez, a 2-run double by Carter and a 3-run
HR by Ray Knight. All 16 runs are unearned as relievers DiPino and Medden
each give up 6, and starter Bob Knepper allows 4 runs. Orosco is the winner
in game 1 and earns a save for Latham's first ML win in game 2, a 7-3 victory.

1987
In Cleveland, Mark McGwire hits 3 homeruns, scores 5 runs, and drives in
5 as the A's trim the Indians, 13-3.

The Salt Lake City Trappers lose, 7-5, to the Billings Mustangs, ending their
professional-record winning streak at 29 consecutive games. The Trappers,
who hadn't lost since June 24th, broke the old record of 27 straight wins
with a 13-3 rout of the Pocatello Giants on July 25th.

1988
Tommy John achieves what is believed to be a ML first by committing 3 errors
on one play in the Yankees' 16-3 rout of the Brewers. The feat ties the ML
record for errors in one inning by a pitcher.

1989
Atlanta's Dale Murphy hits 2 homeruns in the 6th inning of a 10-1 rout of
San Francisco, becoming the first Brave to accomplish the feat since Robert
Lowe in 1894. Murphy also drives in 6 runs in the inning to tie a ML record
which had been accomplished twice before, as the Braves score all ten of
their runs in the outburst.

1991
Dan Gladden's 3-run homer in the 9th enables the host Twins to beat Milwaukee,
7-4. Gladden's hit follows a bunt single by Shane Mack and a dribbler by
Randy Bush. He has now driven in the winner in three straight games.

1992
Sammy Sosa, disabled since June 13 after being hit on the right hand by
Dennis Martinez and breaking a bone, bats leadoff and has 3 hits. He homers
on the first pitch from Doug Drabek. In his first start at Wrigley since
his announcement that he's leaving, Greg Maddux beats the Pirates, 3-2. In
the 8th inning the Wrigley faithful give the ace pitcher a standing ovation.

Houston starts its club record 26-game road trip with a grand slam by Eric
Anthony. The Astros' marathon journey is necessitated by the Republican
Convention taking over the Astrodome.

1993
Phillies 1B John Kruk gets 5 hits in Philadelphia's 10-7 win over the
visiting Cardinals.

The Padres blank the Cubs, 8-0, as SD OF Tony Gwynn knocks 5 hits in a game
for the 3rd time this season.

1994
Florida P Charlie Hough is placed on the disabled list due to a degenerative
hip condition, ending his 22-year major league career.

1995
The Indians obtain P Ken Hill from the Cardinals in exchange for minor
leaguers David Bell, Rick Heiserman and Pepe McNeal.

The White Sox trade pitchers Jim Abbott and Tim Fortugno to the Angels in
exchange for minor league OF McKay Christensen and pitchers Andrew Lorraine,
Bill Simas and John Snyder.

1996
The Padres pound the Marlins, 20-12, scoring 6 runs in the 6th inning, and 9
in the 8th. Wally Joyner leads the way with 5 ribbies, while John Flaherty
hits a grand slam. The Padres are the 6th club to score 20 runs in a game;
the last time that happened was 1929.

The Orioles score 10 runs off Orel Hershiser, including a grand slam by
Palmeiro, to whip the Indians 14-2 at Camden Yards. Hershiser gives up 11
hits and 4 walks in 5 1/3 innings.

In Toronto, Joe Carter becomes the 3rd player to hit a homer into the
upper level at the SkyDome, a 3-run shot that carries 483 feet. Berroa and
Stairs homer for the A's, the 23rd straight game the A's have collected a
homerun. But the Jays beat the A's, 6-4.

The U.S. Olympic team connects for 5 homers in the first inning enroute to
a 15-5 win over Japan.

The White Sox pick up vet catcher Pat Borders from the Angels for minor
leaguer Robert Ellis. Borders will replace Chad Kreuter, out with a
season-ending shoulder injury.

1997
The Braves defeat the Reds, 3-2, in Cincinnati, as the temperature on
Cincinnati's artificial surface reaches 152 degrees. The official temperature
at game time is 94.

In the first of 2, Giants pinch runner Shawn Estes scores in the 13th on a
wild pitch and the Giants win, 6-5. In the nitecap, Kevin Young hits his
2nd two-run homer of the game in the 9th as the Bucs score 5, then they
hold on as the Giants hit 3 homers and score 6 runs. Pittsburgh wins, 10-7,
as the two teams combine for a record-tying 5 homers in the 9th.

The Tigers retire Hal Newhouser's uniform #16. Newhouser pitched 15 seasons
for the Bengals and is the only pitcher to win back to back MVP awards,
in 1944 and 1945. Following the festivities, the Tigers lose to Milwaukee,
11-7, as the Brewers come up with 5 runs in the 9th inning.

The Rockies acquire P Mark Hutton from the Marlins in exchange for IF
Craig Counsell.

1998
In the Devil Ray's 11-5 win over Oakland, Wade Boggs' eighth inning single
moves him past Babe Ruth and into 33rd place on the career hits list
with 2,874.

Colorado defeats Pittsburgh in 13 innings, 8-7. When Pirates' 2B Tony Womack
bounces out in the 11th inning, it gives him a major league record 888
consecutive at-bats without grounding into a double play. The old record
of 887 had been set by Brooklyn's Pete Reiser (July 20, 1941 to June 24,
1946). Womack last bounced into a DP on May 27, 1997.

Sammy Sosa hits his 248th career homer - and his first grand slam - as the
Cubs beat the Diamondbacks, 6-2. Sosa went to bat 4,428 before drilling
the sacks-full homer. His 247 homers without a slam is a ML record ...
the previous mark was 210 homers by Bob Horner. Sosa also tops the 100-RBI
mark with his 4 ribbies, to back Steve Trachsel's (10-5) pitching.

LF Tyrone Horne of the Arkansas Travelers hits 4 HRs, and drives home 10
runs, in a 13-4 win over San Antonio. The last player to hit four in a Texas
League game was Tom Brunansky. "Honestly, there's no explanation for this,"
Horne said after hitting for the unique homerun cycle - a two-run homer
in the first inning, a grand slam in the second, a solo homer in the fifth
(all three off Pete Zamora) and a three-run homer in the sixth, off Miguel
Garcia. He strikes out his last at-bat. Horne will lead the Texas League
in homers with 37.

1999
The Pirates defeat the Mets, 5-1, in the first of Major League Baseball's
"Turn Ahead the Clock Nights." Each team wears futuristic uniforms, with the
home town squad becoming the "Mercury" Mets for the night. The futuristic
theme is carried out throughout the evening, with the scoreboard flashing
computerized photos of the players as each comes to the plate. Rickey
Henderson, for example, is given three eyes and pointy ears, and plays
"left quadrant." Al Martin hits the 1st of his 2 HRs in the 1st "sector,"
and rookie Kris Benson goes the distance for the win.

The Angels' 11-game losing streak ends as they defeat the Devil Rays, 10-5.

2000
The Rockies and Red Sox complete a seven-player trade. The Red Sox receive
pitchers Rolando Arrojo and Rick Croushore, infielder Mike Lansing and an
undisclosed amount of cash for second baseman Jeff Frye and pitchers Brian
Rose and John Wasdinas as well as minor league pitcher Jeff Taglienti.

The Blue Jays sink the Mariners, 7-2, giving Toronto manager Jim Fregosi
his 1,000th win as a big league skipper. He joins Tom Kelly, who earlier
this year won his 1,000th game. Fregosi, a former major league infielder,
has also managed the Angels, White Sox and Phillies.

The Dodgers outslug the Rockies, 16-11, despite OF Larry Walker who scores
5 runs for Colorado, while going 4 for 4.

2001
The Giants get P Wayne Gomes from the Phillies in exchange for OF Felipe
Crespo.

The Cubs get 1B Fred McGriff from the Devil Rays in exchange for P Manny
Aybar and a player to be named. The Cubs' first try for McGriff on the 16th
was nixed by the slugger who said he did not want to uproot his family. His
first game will be a night contest at Wrigley on the 29th, a 7-5 Cubs win.

The Mets trade experience for youth, sending pitchers Turk Wendell and
Dennis Cook to the Phillies in exchange for pitchers Bruce Chen and Adam
Walker. The 2 vets will struggle with the Phils.

2002
The Mariners defeat the Angels, 3-1, ending Jarrod Washburn's 12-game
winning streak, the longest in the majors this season.

Alex Rodriguez has a pair of homers, including a 10th-inning grand slam
off Billy Koch, to lift the Rangers to a 10-6 win over Oakland.

Jason Giambi has a homer and 5 runs scored as the Yankees double the Indians,
14-7. Nick Johnson also homers to back David Wells.

2003
The Expos club the Braves, 13-10. Atlanta's Marcus Giles ties a ML record
with 4 consecutive doubles in the game.

The Blue Jays upend the Orioles, 10-1, as Roy Halladay wins his 15th
consecutive decision.

Gary Carter and Eddie Murray are enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame
in Cooperstown.

Former Metrodome superintendent Dick Ericson tells the Minneapolis Star
Tribune that he tried to manipulate the outcome of Twins games by the use of
electric fans in the late innings. The power of the electric fans needed to
be increased near the end of games to keep the roof inflated as doors were
opened for spectators to leave. Ericson said he would increase the number
of fans blowing from between first and third bases, starting in the last
of the eighth if the Twins were behind, thus giving the Twins the chance
at two innings of batting in these conditions and with only one inning
at-bat for the visiting team. Despite Ericson's admission, which was backed
up by another Metrodome employee, it remains unclear how much effect the
added fans had on the distance of fly balls. Ericson also made clear that
he manipulated the air flow on his own, not at the request of the Twins
nor the Metropolitan Sports Facilities Commission. Bobby Valentine, when
he was managing the Texas Rangers, was the most vociferous in suggesting
that electric fans behind the plate were turned on to blow air toward the
outfield when the Twins were at-bat. The Twins scoffed at the charges.

2004
Was it something I said? The Twins defeat the White Sox, 7-3, and Minnesota's
Corey Koskie ties a ML record by being hit by pitches 3 times in the game.

2005
The Reds beat the Dodgers, 7-6, as Ryan Freel sets a franchise record by
stealing 5 bases.

2008
Brad Ziegler sets a major league record by pitching 27 innings without
allowing a run from the start of his career. The A's 28-year-old rookie
right-hander hurls a scoreless seventh and eighth in Oakland's 6-5 victory
over the Rangers to surpass the previous mark of 25 frames established in
1907 by Phillies moundsman George McQuillan.

2009
Josh Willingham becomes just the 13th major leaguer to hit two grand slams
in the same game. The 30-year-old outfielder's fifth and sixth-inning
bases-loaded homeruns set the pace in the Nationals' 14-6 victory over
Milwaukee at Miller Park.

2011
For the second straight season, the Cardinals trade a starting outfielder
near the trading deadline in an effort to secure more pitching when they
trade center fielder Colby Rasmus to the Blue Jays in exchange for Edwin
Jackson. Last year, the Redbirds dealt right fielder Ryan Ludwick to San Diego
in a three-team deal that brought Indian starter Jake Westbrook to St.Louis.

Ervin Santana, facing only two hitters over the minimum, no-hits the hometown
Indians at Progressive Field, 3-1. The Tribe's only run against the Angels'
right-hander is the result of a first-inning wild pitch following an error
by shortstop Erick Aybar.

At approximately 2:30 a.m. ET, the Pirates filed a formal complaint with
the Commissioner's Office expressing their extreme disappointment by the
way its 19-inning game against the Braves ended earlier this morning. The
statement shares the organization's dismay of home plate Jerry Meals not
seeing the tag made by Michael McKenry three feet in front of home plate
that resulted in Atlanta's 4-3 victory at Turner Field.

With a 9-2 victory in New York, the Mariners post their first win since
July 5 to end their 17-game losing streak, a franchise record. The team's
first win in three weeks comes as a result of Seattle's strong offensive
output and Felix Hernandez' seven innings of four-hit one-run ball.
Seattle's recent futility surpassed the team's previous longest winless
drought which consisted of 14 consecutive defeats in 1992.

2014
In front of an enthusiastic Cooperstown crowd of nearly 50,000, White Sox
slugger Frank Thomas, left-hander Tom Glavine, right-hander Greg Maddux and
managers Bobby Cox, Joe Torre and Tony La Russa are inducted into the Hall
of Fame. Thomas becomes the first player to be enshrined having spent more
than half of his time as a designated hitter, and Torre is the only Hall of
Famer to collect more than 2,000 hits as a player and win more than 2,000
games as a skipper.

2017
The top of the Nationals lineup hit four consecutive homeruns in one inning
when Brian Goodwin, Wilmer Difo, Bryce Harper and Ryan Zimmerman all go
deep in the bottom of the third inning in the team’s 15-2 rout of the
Brewers. Milwaukee right-hander Michael Blazek becomes the first pitcher
in baseball history to allow five homeruns in an inning when Anthony Rendon
adds another round-tripper later in the frame.

