Jul 30

1901
Ban Johnson says the AL will place a team in St. Louis in 1902. The Milwaukee
franchise is seen as the most likely to be transferred. New York will likely
have a franchise while Cleveland and Baltimore will likely lose theirs.

Paced by Nap Lajoie, who hits for the cycle, the Athletics roll by Cleveland,
11-5. Its the 2nd A's cycle this month.

1903
In what the New York Herald describes as "the greatest pitchers' battle
of the year" St. Louis Browns pitcher Willie Sudhoff beats Detroit's Bill
Donovan, 1-0, at Detroit. Both teams play "sensational ball."

At Cincinnati, the Reds easily defeat Chicago, 15-0, before 1,300 fans. Ed
Poole records his first shutout of the year, while rookie Jake Weimer stays
till the end for Chicago. Despite this pounding, Weimer will end the year
with a 2.30 ERA and a 21-9 record.

The Athletics win a doubleheader from the Washington Senators, 12-1 and
6-5. Rube Waddell is knocked out of the box in the 6th of game 2, but
Connie McGeehan takes his place and shuts out the vistors without a hit as
the A's score one in the 7th and 2 in the 8th. For Connie, brother of Dan,
it is his lone win in 3 career appearances.

1904
Cardinal pitcher Jack Taylor walks 7 and tosses 3 wild pitches to help the
host Pirates beat St. Louis, 5-2. The outcome will be viewed suspiciously
because several local gamblers bet heavily on Pittsburgh before the game,
but the real reason is Taylor and Jake Beckley's late night public drinking.

1906
A State Supreme Court judge rules that, despite "voluntary contributions"
instead of paid admissions, Brooklyn is conducting a business enterprise
and thus violating the law prohibiting Sunday baseball in New York. Sunday
baseball in Brooklyn will not be legal until 1919.

At the Polo Grounds, the Giants jump on Cincy's Bob Wicker, lighting him up
for 17 hits to win, 9-1. Christy Mathewson and Cy Seymour each have 3 hits,
with Matty exiting the game after 6 innings. The umps call the game after
8 innings on account of darkness.

1907
Cincinnati manager Ned Hanlon, whose managing days began in 1889 at
Pittsburgh, announces this will be his last season. His record includes 5
pennants - 4 at Baltimore, one at Brooklyn. The boys win one for him today
scoring 7 runs in the 3rd to beat Chicago, 8-0.

1909
After winning 13 in a row, Christy Mathewson loses to Pittsburgh, 3-1,
giving up 4 hits and 3 runs in the first inning. Red Ames relieves in the
2nd. Mathewson's record is now 15-3.

1910
The "Surprise of the Year," according to Ed Bang in Sporting Life, "came on
July 30th when it was announced that the Naps had secured Joe Jackson from the
New Orleans Pelicans for $5,000. It is believed that Connie made the Naps the
concession [as part of the Lord-Rath trade] to allow them to purchase Jackson
from New Orleans." Jackson had been up with the A's briefly in 1908 and 1909.

The A's beat Washington 7-5, handing Walter Johnson his worst loss of the
year. Eddie Collins' three-run homer in the 8th, a line drive that bounces
to the LF wall, is the difference. It's the only HR the Nats ace will allow
this year.

1912
Led by Red Murray's homer, the Giants pound Chicago rookie Jimmy Lavender
for 5 runs in the first 2 innings on their way to a 10-4 win. Each team
makes 4 errors, but Mathewson scatters 9 hits to win. The Giants lead the
NL by 10 games.

1914
It's a bad day for the Chief as the Giants lose a tough one to the Reds,
2-0. The Giants catcher doubles in the 6th and then is out for missing
1B. In the 9th, Meyers throws one ball over Stock's head at 3B, bounces
one to 2B on a steal, and tosses another into CF. The three errors hand
Christy Mathewson the loss.

A wild melee mars the Tigers' 3-2 win over the Senators. With the score tied
in the 9th, the Senators' Ray Morgan seemingly beats out a grounder when he
slides into 1B, but umpire Sheridan calls him out. Morgan comes up with a
handful of dirt, which he throws at the ump's feet. ("This happens in nearly
every game." Washington Post) Sheridan thinks that Morgan meant to hit him
with the dirt and swings at the player catching him on the jaw. Ainsmith
then leads a charge out of the dugout and punches the ump as both teams
rush out. Ainsmith and Morgan are ejected and as they are walking by the
box seats, a fan calls Ainsmith a name. Eddie leans in and asks him to
repeat it, and when the fan does, the catcher decks him, starting a near
riot. Morgan jumps into the stands as does Bull Henry, who gets hit in the
back with a chair. Eventually calm is restored, but the game is delayed
15 minutes. Shaw wild-pitches in a Tiger run in the 10th to give Detroit
a 3-2 win. Harry Coveleski is the winner, allowing 3 hits and striking out 11.

Rusty Griner allows just one hit but his Cards lose to the Dodgers, 2-1. Les
Mann has a single for the lone hit. It is the 2nd one-hiiter this month in
which the pitcher lost.

Ernie Shore stops the White Sox, 4-0, to give the Red Sox rookie a 4-0 record.

1916
The NY Times Book Review pans Ring Lardner's baseball novel You Know Me, Al,
recently published by George H Doran Company at $1.25. The reviewer says
"the author was for some time sporting writer on a Chicago newspaper, and
so may be supposed to know his subject thoroughly, but for the honor of the
'national game' we trust that his 'busher' is not typical of the majority
of its players ... As it contains many accounts of baseball games strung
together on the thinnest possible thread of plot, it may please the 'fans.'"

Carl Mays tops the Tigers, 9-3, for a Red Sox win. With the Browns sweeping
the Yankees, 2-1 and 2-0, Boston goes into first place and the Yankees drop
to 3rd behind the White Sox.

1917
Tigers Ty Cobb, Bobby Veach and Ossie Vitt follow each other in the lineup,
each going 5 for 5 in a 16-4 win over Washington. Having three players
collect five hits ties the ML record for the century. Cobb also scores 5
runs for the first time. Detroit's outfield has 12 hits to tie the AL record.

In 100 degree heat the host Red Sox top the White Sox, 3-1, behind Babe
Ruth's 4-hitter. Chicago bunches three of the 4 hits in the 3rd, including
an RBI triple by Joe Jackson. With the win, the Red Sox move percentage
points behind 1st place Chicago.

1918
After a meeting with Giants executives, NL president John Tener says he is
not in favor of playing the World Series this year, but will abide by the
majority views of the owners when they meet on Saturday. Tener feels that
with the shortened season, there is a lack of interest from the fans.

Led by Burt Shotton's hitting, Washington scores 3 runs in the 9th off Ed
Cicotte and tops the White Sox, 3-0. Jim Shaw allows just 3 hits to win.

Paced by Babe Ruth and Amos Strunk, each with 3 hits, the Red Sox light up
5 Brownie pitchers to beat St. Louis, 14-5. Sam Jones is the winner.

1919
The first-place White Sox and Yankees split a pair of 10-inning games,
with the Yanks winning the first, 6-5, on a squeeze bunt. Yankee outfielder
Ping Bodie's steal of home in the 9th inning of game two ties the match at
3 runs apiece, but the Sox push across two runs in the 10th to win.

1920
Behind Carl Mays, the Yankees roll to a 21-hit 19-3 laugher against the host
Browns. Sisler homers for the Browns' lone bright spot, but Ruth counters
with a 2-run homer in the 9th over the RF bleachers. Meusel follows with
a homer, his 2nd in 2 days.

Behind Hubbell, the Phillies beat the visiting Pirates, 7-2. Casey Stengel
in RF ties the NL mark set this month by accepting 10 chances (9 POs and
1 assist).

1922
The Pirates again top the Giants, 7-0, as Max Carey bangs another two
homeruns. The Pirates will win 2 more to sweep the four-game series with
the Giants.

The Giants send pitchers Fred Toney and Larry Benton to the Braves with
$100,000 and bring back righthander Hugh McMillan. Toney refuses to report
and stays in New York. When Benton develops into a consistent pitcher,
the Giants will buy him back. The Giants also sell P Rube Benton to the
Reds, though he will not play for Cincinnati until 1923. Benton is under
suspension for activities related to gambling. Rube testified about the 1919
World Series, and said that Buck Herzog and Hal Chase offered him money
to throw a game between the Giants and Cubs during the 1919 season. He
said a bartender would back up his story, though the bartender could not
be located. Benton also said that he had won money on the Reds after being
tipped off by Chase. Benton missed last season as well.

The Browns move to a 1 1/2 game lead, beating the Red Sox, 4-1, as the
White Sox beat New York. Ken Williams hits #26, one of 3 Brownie bombs.

1924
With no outs in the 8th and runners on 1B and 2B, Bill Sherdel is called out
of the Cardinals bullpen to pitch to PH Johnny Mokan of the Phillies. Sherdel
throws one ball, and Mokan bunts it in the air to Jim Bottomley coming in
from 1B. He throws to SS Jimmy Cooney, who doubles the runner at 2B and
throws to Hornsby covering 1B. A triple play on one pitch. Hornsby adds a
HR and Sherdel picks up the win, 9-8, over the Phillies.

1925
The White Sox stop Stan Coveleski's win streak at 13, beating Washington 11-1.

1927
At New York, the Yanks trim the Indians twice, 7-3 and 5-0. Lou Gehrig
has a pair of homeruns to lead Ruth by one homer at 35. One is Lou's 2nd
bounce HR of his career:  a fair ball that bounced into the stands is a
HR in the AL until 1929 (1930 in the NL). Gehrig had 2 career bounce HRs,
while Ruth never hits one. Ruether wins the opener and adds a homerun,
Waite Hoyt wins his 14th in the nitecap.

1929
For the 4th straight time this season, Fred Fitzsimmons shuts out the Reds,
beating Jakie May, 3-0. Fitz' mark is a giants club record.

1930
The Reds lose a night exhibition game in Indianapolis. Fifteen years later,
Cincinnati will be the first major league team to host a night game.

1931
Roger Hornsby belts a grand slam to help the Cubs and Pat Malone coast to
a 14-3 win at Philadelphia.

1932
Brooklyn's Hack Wilson hits a grand slam to beat his old pal pitcher Pat
Malone and the Cubs, 7-2. It's Wilson's second grand slam off Malone in
two months.

1933
The Cards Dizzy Dean sets a 20th-century ML record with 17 strikeouts in the
first game of a doubleheader with the Cubs, an 8-2 Cards win. His teammate,
C Jimmie Wilson, totals 18 putouts, also a new record. St. Louis takes the
2nd game, 6-5.

Burleigh Grimes, 9 days short of his 40th birthday, is released by the Cubs
and signs with the Cardinals.

1935
The Pirates fry Larry French, former Buc pitcher, for 4 runs in the 1st
inning, but the red-hot Cubs win 9-6. Bill Lee relieves French and allows
just 4 hits after the opening inning. The game features a brawl between
Billy Jurges and the Cubs reserve catcher Wally Stephenson. The fight earns
Stephenson a quick trip back to Chicago, but when Hartnett hurts his ankle,
the combative catcher will be told to rejoin the team in Cincinnati to back
up Ken O'Dea. Hartnett won't return to the lineup till August 11.

1936
Vern Kennedy wins his 10th in a row, pitching the White Sox to a win over
the A's, 7-4. Bob Kennedy connects off Vern Kennedy for his 16th homer of
the year, while Gordon "Dusty" Rhodes is handed one of his AL-high twenty
losses. Hod Lisenbee, signed yesterday, is effective in relief of Rhodes.

Kiki Cuyler of the Reds has 8 straight hits - all singles - during a
doubleheader split with the Phils. The Reds win the opener, 5-0, behind
Bill Hallahan, then lose, 5-4 to veteran Ray Benge, making his first start
for the Quakers since being acquired on waivers from the Bees.

The Boston Red Sox, led by owner Tom Yawkey and accompanied by AL President
Will Harridge, fly from St. Louis to Chicago aboard one plane. Five players
elect to take the train. In 1934, the Reds flew from Cincinnati to Chicago,
but divided the players among 3 planes. Some of the Reds still chose to
take the train.

The Yankees, with Jake Powell back in CF for the injured Hoag, drop a 5-4
decision to Detroit. On August 1st, Powell will go to LF, with DiMaggio
playing CF for the first time. Selkirk will return to RF. The Yanks loses
today when Charlie Gehringer ties the match with a two-run homer in the
8th. Bill Dickey allows a ball to get by him in the 10th and Burns scores
the winner. Schoolboy Rowe pitches 10 innings for the win over Johnny Broaca.

At Brooklyn, the Cardinals' Jim Winford tosses a 4-hitter in stopping
Stengel's men, 7-0. The Cards climb to within a game of the top as the Cubs
lose. After the game, at Mama Leone's on W 48th Street, baseball writers
give a birthday dinner to Casey Stengel.

Buffalo pitcher Bill Harris tosses his 2nd no-hitter in the International
League, stopping Newark.

At the funeral of Charles Knapp, president of the Baltimore Orioles as
well as the International League, Warren Giles is named interim league
president. Giles is the president of the Rochester Red Wings. With Knapp's
death, Mrs. Jack Dunn, majority owner of the Orioles, assumes the role of
team president.

1937
At Cincinnati, Phillies 1B Dolf Camilli could've stayed home as he gets no
putouts in Philadelphia's 1-0 win over the Reds.

1938
In the Tigers' 9-2 win over the A's, Greenberg hits his 9th HR in a week,
tying the mark set by Babe Ruth in 1930. Greenberg started the week with
a grand slam on the 24th.

1942
The Phillies defeat the visiting Reds, 4-2, with SS Bobby Bragan catching
all 9 innings. Bragan caught part of the game on the 24th and for the rest
of his career will be behind the plate most often.

1943
Phil Cavarretta of the Chicago Cubs homers off the RF foul pole against
Johnny Allen of the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 3rd inning. Because of wartime
conservation, the ball is retrieved, and Bill Nicholson then hits the next
pitch out of Wrigley Field. The result:  one ball, one pitcher, 2 pitches,
2 homers. The Cubs go on to beat the Dodgers, 12-3.

1944
The 4th straight bad start by Bucky Walters of Cincinnati will deprive him
of the ERA title. Bucky is batted out for the 4th straight time and gives
up 27 runs in 24 innings after a brilliant start of the season. He will
recover to win 23 games and finish with an ERA of 2.40, but teammate Ed
Heusser will be the ERA champ with 2.38. The Giants' Rube Fischer beats
Walters, 8-0, and Gumbert gives the Reds a 9-3 nitecap win.

The Cards finally lose after 9 straight wins as Brooklyn upends them, 10-4,
in a doubleheader opener. St. Louis takes game 2, 9-7, in 11 innings when
Stan Musial steals 3rd and scores the winning run on a Mickey Owens wild
throw. The win is the Birds' 26th of the month, their winningest month ever.

1947
The New York Giants edge the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, in 10 innings, ending Ewell
Blackwell's winning streak at 16 games, a NL record for right handers. All the
games were complete games and five were shutouts (including 1 no-hitter). The
Giants tie in the 9th on Willard Marshall's 27th homer.

In St. Louis, the Dodgers take a 10-0 lead over the Cards after 3 1/2 innings,
then hold on to win, 11-10, in 10 innings. In the 10th, Slaughter is at-bat
with a 3-1 count, when Musial attempts to steal 2B and is thrown out to
end the game. Musial has 4 hits in the game.

1948
At Cleveland, the Red Sox are victorious, 8-7, for their 25th win of the
month, a club record.

1950
Del Ennis of the Phils hits his 2nd grand slam in 3 days in a 10-0 pasting
of Pittsburgh. He adds a two-run homer as the Phils take the 2nd game, 4-2,
and helps the Phils boost their lead to 3 games over St. Louis. His 7 RBIs
in 2 games gives him 41 for the month, a new Phils record.

The Cards stop the Giants, 6-3, to end New York's win streak of 9 games. Gerry
Staley wins his 10th on a 7-hitter and is backed by Enos Slaughter's single,
double and triple. Red Schoendienst's wide toss to 3rd in the 9th ends his
streak of 57 games without an error. He had handled 323 chances without
an error.

1951
Retired Hall of Famer Ty Cobb testifies in front of Emanuel Celler's
Congressional committee in Washington D.C. The 'Georgia Peach' denies the
reserve clause makes 'peons' out of baseball players and is necessary to
keep the competitive balance in the game. National Association President
George Trautman testifies, denying that minors hampered independent teams.

Joe DiMaggio makes a rare mental error against Detroit, catching a Steve
Souchock fly ball in deep CF and, thinking it's the 3rd out, begins trotting
in. It's only the second out, and George Kell scores from 2B to make the
score 4-2 in the 8th. Despite the lapse the Yanks win, 5-4, with DiMag
knocking in the winning run in the 9th.

1952
Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick sets a waiver rule to bar interleague
deals until all clubs bid with the club lowest in the league getting the
first pick. He sets the price at $10,000. He also bars all other deals
after July 31st.

Journeyman hurler Lou Kretlow fashions his 2nd consecutive 2-hitter as the
White Sox down New York, 7-0.

1953
The Giants, Monte Irvin grounds into 3 DPs tying a NL record as Milwaukee
wins, 5-0.

The St. Louis Browns purchase veteran infielder Vern Stephens from the
White Sox.

The vacant Braves Field is sold to Boston University for $500,000.

1954
Against Allie Reynolds, 3B Bob Kennedy hits the first grand slam for the new
Baltimore Orioles, as they blast the Yankees, 10-0, behind Don Larsen. The
loss is the Chief's first after 10 wins. The Orioles surpass the top season
attendance the Browns had in their 52 years, as they draw 27,385 for the
game, giving them 7,000 more than the 712,918 St. Louis drew in 1922.

1955
The Orioles get P Ed Lopat from the Yankees for P Jim McDonald and cash. New
York waives the veteran to make room for Don Larsen.

1956
Facing Bob Lemon, Mantle socks his 1st grand slam of the year, and drives in 6
runs, to lead New York to a 13-6 drubbing of the Indians in Cleveland. Mantle
follows by hitting his only career homer against reliever Bob Feller. The
Yankees now lead the AL by ten games.

The Tigers beat Boston's Frank Sullivan, 4-1, after 11 straight losses to
him stretching back to May 16, 1954. Virgil Trucks is the winner, firing
a 3-hitter.

1957
The Phils sign Ron Northey in the afternoon and that night the veteran hits
a 2-run 8th-inning pinch homer to help give the Phils an 8-5 win over the
Reds. For Northey, it is his 9th career pinch homer, which ties the ML record.

1958
At Milwaukee, Warren Spahn defeats the Dodgers for the first time in nearly
7 years, beating them, 4-3. His last victory against them was September 25,
1951, though in fact he had not faced them since June 5, 1955, when they
beat him. Eddie Mathews' 21st HR in the 8th inning decides the game and
puts the Braves back in 1st place ahead of the Giants.

The Reds' Bob Purkey stops the Giants, 5-1, though San Francisco stops his
scoreless inning streak against them at 46 innings. Spencer's single in
the 5th drives in the run. The Giants last scored on Purkey on May 7, 1955.

1959
In his ML debut, Willie McCovey goes 4 for 4 with 2 triples off Robin Roberts
to lead the Giants to a 7-2 win over the Phils. McCovey was hitting .372
with 29 HRs at Phoenix when promoted. The Giant freshman first baseman,
who will be selected as the league's Rookie of the Year despite his late
call-up, will hit 13 homeruns in just 52 games.

The Southern Association suspends Chattanooga 1B Jesse Levan for life because
of his involvement as a go-between for gamblers seeking to fix games. His
teammate, Waldo Gonzales, receives a one-year suspension.

The PCL's Portland club sues ML baseball for $1.8 million, citing unfair
practices through television that could bring the downfall of the minor
leagues. They warn the ML not to start a 3rd league or expand.

1960
Yankee manager Casey Stengel celebrates his 70th birthday and quips,
"most people my age are dead at the present time". The 'Old Perfessor'
and Connie Mack are the only two skippers to manage in the major leagues
into their seventies.

Just as he predicts, Philadelphia P Art Mahaffey, just called up from
Buffalo, picks off the first batter to get a hit against him. Then with
the next batter to get a hit, he does it again. Curt Flood and Bill White
are the base runner victims, but St. Louis still wins, 6-3. In his next
game, the first batter to get a hit off Mahaffey will be Jim Marshall,
and Mahaffey will pick him off as well. In the 1980s, Tippy Martinez will
pick off 3 runners in one inning.

1962
After mysteriously disappearing off the team bus to use the rest room three
days ago and trying to fly to Israel, pitcher Gene Conley returns to the
Red Sox and is fined $2000. Yesterday, the right-hander sent a telegram to
manager Mike Higgins explaining he was tired and had other plans.

Homers by Leon Wagner, Pete Runnels and Rocky Colavito power the AL past
the NL, 9-4, in the 2nd All-Star Game this year.

1963
The Phillies tally 11 hits off the Giants' Billy O'Dell, but the Digger
shuts them out, 5-0.

1965
Milwaukee manager Bobby Bragan says his pitchers threw 75 to 80 spitballs
in a 9-2 loss to the Giants. Bragan says he ordered the spitters to prove
rules against them are not being enforced.

1966
Chicago's Gary Peters shuts down the Yankees, 6-0, facing just 29 batters. The
efficient Peters uses just 75 pitches.

The Twins' Dave Boswell allows just a 7th inning single to Snyder in beating
the Orioles, 7-0.

1968
In the first inning, Washington SS Ron Hansen turns the 8th unassisted
triple play in ML history and the first in 41 years. Cleveland's Joe Azcue
hits a liner to Hansen, who steps on 2B to double Dave Nelson, and tags Russ
Snyder sliding into 2B for the 3rd out. Hansen's effort is not enough, as
Washington loses 10-1. All five American League unassisted triple killings
have included a Cleveland player.

1969
Its a bad day for the Mets at Shea. In the 1st of 2 games, Houston scores 11
runs in the 9th inning, 8 coming home on grand slams by Jimmy Wynn and Denis
Menke, to trounce the Mets 16-3. Jimmy Wynn and Norm Miller score on each
bases loaded homerun. This is the first time this century in the NL that
2 grand slams have come in the same inning, with Mets pitchers Cal Koonce
and Ron Taylor teeing up the honors (the last time in the AL was July 18,
1962). Taylor also serves up a single to Houston relief P Fred Gladding, the
only hit of Gladding's career in 63 ML at-bats and 450 games. Game 2 is no
different as the Astros tally 10 runs in the 3rd inning to thrash the Mets,
11-5. Curt Blefary triples with the sacks full and pitcher Larry Dierker
(13-8) homers with a man on.

Using 5 homers, the Braves thrash the Phils, 6-3, in game 1. Alou and
Aaron homer and Bob Tillman, hitting .187, hits three in a row (the second,
fourth and sixth inning blasts all come off starter Grant Jackson). Aaron's
blast is the 537th of his career and moves him past Mantle on the all-time
list. The Phils win the nitecap, 4-3. Dick Allen homers in the 2nd inning
and follows a Callison homer in the 8th with his 2nd shot of the game.

1971
The Indians, with a 42-61 record, fire manager Alvin Dark. Johnny Lipon
takes over, but the team goes 18-41 the rest of the season.

In Baltimore, Frank Robinson's homerun spoils a no-hit bid by the Royals'
Dick Drago, who loses, 1-0, in a rain-shortened game. Drago faces just 13
batters - the minimum needed to lose a game - as play is stopped with one
out in the 5th. Robby's homer is the 493rd, tying him with Gehrig for 11th
place on the homer list. Jim Palmer pitches a 5-inning 2-hitter.

1972
Ralph Garr and Earl Williams collect 10 hits and 10 runs between them to
lead the Braves to 14-4 and 5-4 victories over the Dodgers. They each have
4 RBIs in the 2 games.

The Angels beat Kansas City, 4-3, when Bob Oliver hits a leadoff HR in the
11th inning against his former team. The win goes to Lloyd Allen, relegated to
the bullpen after 5 straight losses as a starter. Allen's batterymate, Jack
Hiatt, is 1 for 1 after taking over in the late innings. Hiatt, purchased
yesterday from the Astros, appears without a number on his uniform since
there was not enough time to sew one on.

1973
Rangers rookie Jim Bibby no-hits first-place (and World Champions) Oakland at
the Oakland Coliseum, 6-0, while teammate Jeff Burroughs hits the 2nd of 3
grand slams in a 10-day period (July 26th - August 4th). Bibby, who came to
Texas in a June 6th trade with the Cardinals, strikes out 13 batters. Bibby
becomes the 14th player to throw a no-hitter in his rookie season and
becomes the the first hurler in franchise history to accomplish the feat.

1975
Jose Sosa becomes the first Astros player in the 14-year history of the
franchise to hit a homerun in his first major league at-bat. The relief
pitcher belts a three-run homer off Danny Frisella in an 8-4 victory over
the Padres at San Diego's Jack Murphy Stadium. It will be Sosa's only HR
in the majors.

Pat Darcy goes the distance beating the Giants at Riverfront Stadium,
6-1. It is the first complete game thrown by a Reds pitcher ending a record
45 consecutive game streak without one.

1976
The Reds do all their scoring in the first 3 innings to beat Houston, 13-8,
in the 1st of 2. Cincy adds a 4-2 win in the nitecap to sweep as Bench hits
his 250th homer.

In a Southern Association game in Memphis, the Chick's Art Gardner hits a
3rd-inning shot off the CF wall and, while Syracuse OF Rick Bladt searches
for the ball, Gardner circles the bases for an inside-the-park HR. When
Bladt can't find the ball, the umpires rule the hit is only a double.

1977
Yankee pitcher Don Gullett picks up his 10th win of the year, a 9-3 victory
over the A's. But it will prove to be his final win of the year when he
injures his shoulder in the 7th inning and leaves the game.

1978
The Expos crush the Braves, 19-0, collecting 28 hits and a NL-record-tying
8 HRs. Andre Dawson, Larry Parrish, Dave Cash and Dawson again homer in
the 4th inning; Parrish has a single and 3 consecutive HRs in the game,
only the 4th major leaguer to do it. Pat Seerey, in 1948, was the last. Not
till Andres Galarraga in 1995 will a hitter bang homers in 3 consecutive
innings. The 58 bases breaks an 85-year-old record held by the Reds. Woodie
Fryman conducts the win over Mickey Mahler.

1980
During a workout at the Astrodome, Houston hurler J.R. Richard suffers a
stroke attempting to throw for the first time since being hospitalized for
tests (after complaining on several occasions about a dead feeling in his
arm). Emergency surgery is performed to remove a blood clot behind his right
collarbone, but the fireballer will never pitch in the major leagues again.

1982
The moving of Chief Noc-A-Homa's teepee from left field to make room for more
seats coincides with the Braves dropping 19 of 21 contests and blowing a
10 1/2 game lead. After the teepee is brought back, the team regains first
place and will go on to capture the NL West title.

1984
At San Diego, Dave Dravecky allows one hit - a double to Bill Russell in
the 7th - as the Padres rout the Dodgers, 12-0.

1986
C Ron Hassey is traded for the 3rd time in 8 months, this time going to
Chicago in a deal that brings OF-DH Ron Kittle, SS Wayne Tolleson and C
Joel Skinner to New York.

An arbitrator rules against the ML owners for including clauses in the
contracts of several hundred players that allow random drug testing without
negotiating with the players union.

1987
Although the Bulova company had promised a free watch to any player who hit
their clock located high above the scoreboard in right field, Bama Rowell
didn't receive the time piece after his 1946 blast. The injustice is corrected
more than 40 years later when the former Braves' outfielder, whose blast is
thought to be the inspiration for author Bernard Malamud having Roy Hobbs,
the hero of his 1952 novel, The Natural, smashing a glass-shattering homer
off the light tower, receives his wristwatch from Bulova on 'Bama Rowell'
Day in Citronelle, Alabama, the honoree's hometown.

The Pirates trade P Don Robinson to the Giants for minor league catcher
Mackey Sasser and cash.

The Indians trade fading veteran Steve Carlton to the Twins for a player
to be named later.

1988
John Franco saves his 13th game of July in Cincinnati's 2-0 win over San
Diego, setting a ML record for saves in one month. The previous mark of 12
was shared by Sparky Lyle, Bruce Sutter and Bob Stanley.

1989
Mark Grace belts a 2-out 3-run homer off Rick Aguilera to give the Cubs
a 6-4 win over the Mets. Lancaster is the winner as the Cubs sweep three
from the Mets.

1990
In a surprisingly harsh ruling, Commissioner Fay Vincent orders Yankees owner
George Steinbrenner to resign as the club's general partner by August 20th
and bans him from day-to-day operation of the team for life. The ruling is
a result of Steinbrenner's $40,000 payment to confessed gambler Howie Spira
for damaging information about since-traded Yankee star Dave Winfield. 'The
Boss', who will be reinstated in 1993, agrees to the dire consequences
of the "agreement", not wanting to jeopardize his relationship with the
U.S. Olympic Committee if he were to be "suspended" from the game. As word
begins to circulate around Yankee Stadium that George Steinbrenner has been
permanently removed as the owner of the team, many of the 24,037 fans in
attendance start chanting, "No More George! No More George!". After a long
day of turmoil, the 'Boss' learns of the fans' glee, much to his chagrin,
when he watches the 11 p.m. local television news.

Jack Clark hits his 300th career HR in San Diego's 4-3 eleven-inning loss
to the Braves. His homer in the 10th ties the game and is his 17th homer
in extra innings. He's now in 2nd place in overtime homers to Mays' 22.

Nolan Ryan becomes the 20th 300 game winner in history, in an 11-3 Texas win
over Milwaukee. Ryan is not around to finish, joining Steve Carlton and Early
Wynn as the only pitchers not to hurl a complete game for their 300th win.

1991
Boston relief pitcher Jeff Gray collapses in the clubhouse prior to the
Red Sox game with Texas. He becomes lightheaded, his speech slurs, and
he suffers weakness in the right side of his body. Diagnosed as suffering
from a stroke, Gray will undergo 2 years of rehab and, in 1994, become a
minor league pitching coach. Gray's stroke comes on the 11th anniversary
of J.R. Richards' stroke. In the game which follows, the Red Sox' Carlos
Quintana ties a major league record by driving in 6 runs in one inning in
Boston's 11-6 victory. He strokes a double and a grand slam.

The Angels trade 3B Jack Howell to the Padres for OF Shawn Abner.

1992
The Blue Jays trade C Greg Myers and OF Rob Ducey to the Angels in exchange
for P Mark Eichhorn.

1993
The Yankees obtain P Paul Assenmacher from the Cubs in a 3-way deal which
sees P John Habyan go to the Royals and OF Karl Rhodes to the Cubs.

1994
Detroit defeats Oakland, 14-2, as Tiger C Chad Kreuter ties a major league
record with 3 sacrifice flies. He is the 9th player in history to perform
the feat.

The Giants defeat the Rockies by a score of 6-4, as Giants pitcher
Rod Beck sets a major league record by converting his 25th save in 25
opportunities. Beck held the previous record of 24 which he set last season.

1995
Mike Schmidt, Richie Ashburn, Negro League star Leon Day, former NL president
William A. Hulbert and Vic Willis are inducted into the Hall of Fame.

Chili Davis of the Angels is charged with disorderly conduct following
California's 8-3 win over the Brewers in Milwaukee. Davis allegedly slapped
a fan who was taunting him. Chili also had a hit in the game.

The Astros' Jeff Bagwell suffers a broken hand when his is hit by a pitch
in the 4th from Brian Williams in the Astros' 7-1 win over the Padres. It
is the same bone that he broke last year when he was hit by a pitch from
Andy Benes on August 10, 2 days before the strike.

1996
The Giants trade starting pitcher Mark Leiter to the Expos in exchange for
pitchers Tim Scott and Kirk Rueter. During his ten-year tenure with San
Francisco, Woody compiles a 105-70 record.

The Reds acquire OF Kevin Mitchell from the Red Sox for minor leaguers Brad
Tweedlie and Roberto Mejia. Cincy also sells OF Eric Anthony to the Rockies.

Boston gets a leadoff hitter when the Mariners trade OF Darren Bragg to the
Red Sox in exchange for P Jamie Moyer. Moyer, in a portent of his success
with the M's, is 7-1.

1997
David Wells fires a 3-hitter as the Yankees beat the Royals, 7-0. Tino
Martinez hits his 36th homer and Luis Sojo has 4 hits.

At Boston, the Red Sox beat the Mariners, 8-7, in 10 innings. Steve Avery
grounds out as a pinch hitter in the 10th, the first Sox pitcher to hit
since Tim Lollar in 1986.

1998
The Indians score 3 runs in the top of the 17th inning against Seattle,
then hold on as the Mariners fight back with 2 of their own in the bottom
of the stanza. Cleveland gets 16 hits in the contest while Seattle accounts
for 19 in a losing cause. Alex Rodriguez steals his 30th base in the game,
to go along with his 31 homers. He's the 6th 30-30 player in AL history.

The Red Sox bring back OF-1B Mike Stanley from the Blue Jays trading minor
league pitchers Peter Munro and Jay Yennaco.

The Braves obtain IF Greg Colbrunn from the Rockies in exchange for minor
league pitchers David Cortes and Mike Porzio.

The Ladies Professional Baseball League suspends the remainder of the season
due to low attendance. In the last game played, the Long Beach Aces lose
to the San Jose Spitfires, 7-0.

1999
The Yankees defeat the Red Sox, 13-3, as 2B Chuck Knoblauch raps out 5 hits,
including a double and leadoff HR, and drives home 4 runs. Knoblauch's
leadoff homer is followed by Derke Jeter's homer.

2000
The Braves defeat the Astros, 6-3, as Tom Glavine wins his 200th career game.

The Phillies bring P Kent Bottenfield back to the NL, sending cash and vet
Ron Gant to the Angels.

The Cardinals obtain P Jason Christiansen from the Pirates in exchange for
IF Jack Wilson.

The Astros trade P Doug Henry to the Giants for P Scott Linebrink.

2001
The Twins get Mets starter Rick Reed for outfielder and leadoff batter Matt
Lawton. The 36-year-old right-hander, a member of the National League All
Star team this season, had compiled an 8-6 record with a 3.86 ERA with New
York prior to the deal.

The Cubs get P David Weathers and P Roberto Miniel from the Brewers for P
Ruben Quevedo and OF Peter Zoccolillo.

The Yankees reacquire P Sterling Hitchcock from the Padres, sending San
Diego P Brett Jodie and OF Darren Blakely. New York will pluck Jodie off
the waiver list in January.

The Giants obtain P Jason Schmidt and OF John Vander Wal from the Pirates
for OF Armando Rios and P Ryan Vogelsong. Schmidt will go 7-1 the rest of
the year for the Giants and then sign a 4-year contract. Vogelsong will
undergo Tommy John surgery on September 20.

2002
Montreal OF Cliff Floyd is traded for the second time in 3 weeks, going to the
Red Sox in exchange for minor league pitchers Seuny Jun Song and Sun Woo Kim.

2003
Battling a 5 for 36 slump, Jose Valentin hits three homeruns (with 6 RBIs)
in a 15-4 victory over the Royals. The White Sox shortstop becomes the
first switch-hitter in baseball history to have three-homer games in both
the American and National Leagues, having accomplished the feat with the
Brewers in 1998.

The Mariners score 9 runs in the 1st inning and go on to defeat the Tigers,
13-3.

The A's send pitchers Aaron Harang, Jeff Bruksch and Joe Valentin to the
Reds. In return, Oakland receives OF Jose Guillen.

The Cubs obtain OF Doug Glanville from the Rangers in exchange for OF Jason
Fransz and cash.

2004
In a blockbuster trade, the Marlins deal Brad Penny, the winner of two World
Series games last season, first baseman Hee Seop Choi and southpaw prospect
Bill Murphy (will be traded to the Diamondbacks tomorrow) to the Dodgers
for backstop Paul Lo Duca, relief pitcher Guillermo Mota and much-traveled
outfielder Juan Encarnacion.

The Cubs down the Phillies, 10-7, as Aramis Ramirez hits 3 HRs.

In a swap criticized by New York media, the Mets acquire pitchers Victor
Zambrano and Bartolome Fortunado from the Devil Rays in exchange for highly
touted pitchers Scott Kazmir and Jose Diaz. It is Zambrano poster day for the
Devil Rays. The Mets also obtain pitcher Kris Benson and IF Jeff Keppinger
from the Pirates for IF Ty Wigginton, P Matt Peterson, and IF Jose Bautista,
whom they acquired from KC for C Justin Huber. While Bautista did not get
into a game for the Mets, the Pirates will be the 4th team he suits up for
this year.

The Reds get P Josh Hancock and INF Anderson Machado from the Phillies
for P Todd Jones and OF Brad Correll. Hancock will record his first ML
win tomorrow when he enters the Cincinnati-Houston game in the 13th inning
and is victorious when Jason LaRue doubles in the winner. The game is the
completion of today's rain-delayed suspended game ... Hancock was not a
member of the Reds when the game started.

The Phillies send OF Ricky Ledee and P Alfredo Simon to the Giants for P
Felix Rodriguez.

The Padres obtain IF Dave Hansen from Seattle for P Jon Huber.

2005
Devil Rays down the Royals, 7-3. Rookie OF Jonny Gomes becomes the first
player in Devil Rays history to hit 3 HRs in a game. He is the first rookie
to accomplish the feat since Colorado's Jose Ortiz did so in 2001.

After the Red Sox fax an offer for Byrnes to the Rockies, and then renege
citing as the reason the demands of the attempt to trade Manny Ramirez,
the Orioles send OF Larry Bigbie to the Rockies for OF Eric Byrnes. The
Rockies owner publicly criticizes the Sox.

2006
The Yankees trade four minor leaguers - shortstop C.J. Henry, southpaw
reliever Matt Smith, catcher Jesus Sanchez and right-hander Carlos Monasterios
- to the Phillies in exchange for All-Star outfielder Bobby Abreu and veteran
pitcher Cory Lidle. New York will assume responsibility of Abreu's contract
which includes the remaining portion of the $13.5 million for this season,
$15.5 million for next year, and a $16 million option for 2008 with a $2
million buyout.

Eighteen individuals, the largest number ever selected, are inducted into
the Hall of Fame. The group consist of 17 persons, including the first woman
to enter the Hall, who had participated in the pre-Negro Leagues or Negro
Leagues and Bruce Sutter, the fourth reliever to be enshrined in Cooperstown.

In the Mets' 10-6 win over the Braves, Carlos Beltran hits his 3rd grand
slam this month to tie a ML record. He is the 9th player in history to do
so. The Mets' 6th slam of the month also ties a mark set by the Expos in
1996 and matched by the Indians 3 years later.

The Cardinals and Indians swap second baseman as the Birds acquire Ron
Belliard and the Indians get Hector Luna.

The Reds send P Justin Germano to the Phillies in exchange for P Rheal
Cormier. Cincinnati also gets P Kyle Lohse from the Twins for P Zach Ward.

The Tigers acquire 1B Sean Casey from the Pirates for P Brian Rogers.

In Cleveland's 7-3 loss to Seattle, Indians reliever Tom Mastny makes his
ML debut and becomes the first player born in Indonesia to play in the
majors. Mastny was born on the island of Borneo in 1981.

The Braves trade P Jorge Sosa to the Cardinals for P Rich Scalamandre.

2007
In front of a record crowd of an estimated 75,000 fans and an unprecedented
number of 53 members of the Hall of Famers, Cal Ripken and Tony Gwynn are
inducted into the shrine at Cooperstown. Joining the ballplayers on the dais
are Denny Matthews, the longtime radio voice of the Royals, the recipient
Ford C. Frick Award given to outstanding broadcasters, and Rick Hummel,
beat writer for the Post-Dispatch, the J.G. Taylor Spink Award honoree for
his outstanding coverage of the Cardinals.

2008
The Yankees, in need of a catcher due to Jorge Posoda's season-ending surgery,
obtain 13-time Gold Glove winner Ivan Rodriguez from the Tigers in exchange
for reliever Kyle Farnsworth. The 36-year-old All-Star backstop waives his
no-trade clause to go to New York which completes the deal a day before
the trading deadline.

With a 4-3 victory at McAfee Coliseum, the Royals sweep the A's in Oakland
for the first time in two decades. The last time Kansas City broke out the
broom in O-town was in June of 1988.

In a slugfest at Progessive Field, the Tigers defeat the Indians in 13
innings, 14-12. Cleveland catcher Kelly Shoppach's five extra-base hits in
one game - two homeruns and three doubles - ties a major league record.

With a tip of his helmet for the ovation from the Rangers fans, Ichiro
Suzuki acknowledges his achievement of reaching 3,000 hits in professional
baseball. The 34-year-old Mariners outfielder had collected 1,278 hits with
the Orix Blue Wave in Japan's Pacific League, and his first-inning single
in Texas was his 1,722nd hit with Seattle during eight seasons with the team.

2011
The Indians trade veteran infielder Orlando Cabrera (.244, 4, 38) to the
Giants for minor league prospect Thomas Neal. In 60 games with Triple-A
Fresno, the Tribe's newest outfielder hit .295 along with two homers,
and drove in 25 runs.

The Orioles trade Derrek Lee to the Pirates in exchange for minor-leaguer
Aaron Baker, who will be assigned to Class A Frederick. The Bucs hope their
new good-fielding first baseman can provide some pop to the lineup as the
team tries to stay in contention in the competitive NL Central Division race.

The Indians announce the team has completed the trade with the Rockies for
Ubaldo Jimenez. The deal, contingent on the right-hander passing his physical,
sends highly touted minor league pitchers Alex White and Drew Pomeranz, along
with right-handed prospect Joe Gardner, and utility player Matt McBride to
Colorado in exchange for the Dominican ace, who the Tribe hopes will anchor
their rotation down the pennant stretch as the team attempts to pass Detroit.

2013
In a three-team seven-player deal made just prior to the non-waiver
trade deadline, the Red Sox obtain Jake Peavy from the White Sox, with
third baseman Jose Iglesias to the Tigers as part of the transaction that
includes Avisail Garcia, whom the Red Sox acquired from Detroit, being
sent to Chicago. Boston's new right-hander gives the eventual World Champs
another proven starting pitcher in their rotation, helping to fill the void
created by the injury suffered by Clay Buchholz.

2014
Felix Hernandez becomes the first pitcher in major league history to make
14 consecutive starts of at least seven innings pitched with giving up
two runs or less. The Mariners right-hander, known as 'King Felix', breaks
the record previously held by Tom Seaver, who established the mark in 1971
while pitching for the Mets.

2017
Adrian Beltre of Texas recorded his 3,000th career hit with a double in
the fourth inning against the Baltimore Orioles. He became the 31st player,
and the first Dominican-born player, to reach this mark.

Steve Pearce of Toronto tied the Major League record for most walk-off grand
slams hit by a single batter within a single season by hitting his second.
Cy Williams and Jim Presley had accomplished the feat in 1926 and 1986,
respectively. With Pearce's previous one coming only three days prior on
July 27, Pearce became the first player in Major League history to hit
multiple walk-off grand slams within the span of a single week.

