Jul 31

1901
In Cincinnati, the Reds take 14 innings to subdue the Chicago Colts,
5-4. Reds pitcher Noodle Hahn strikes out 11 in the win, while Chicago
pitcher Tom Hughes records 15 strikeouts.

1903
A tired Christy Mathewson loses his 4th in a row as Boston clips him for 6
hits and 4 walks to win, 4-1. Pop Williams, recently acquired, allows just
3 Giant hits.

1905
Charles P. Taft, owner of the Cincinnati Times-Star and brother of a future
president, finances Charles W. Murphy's purchase of the Chicago Cubs for
$125,000.

1909
For the 2nd time in 2 years - the first was on May 25, 1908 - Bill Burns
has a no-hitter broken up with two outs in the 9th, when Washington's Otis
Clymer singles. But Burns and the White Sox win, 1-0, besting Walter Johnson
in the first of two games. Burns is the only pitcher to suffer this fate
twice, until Dave Stieb of Toronto does on September 24 and 30, 1988.

1910
In the 2nd game of a doubleheader in St. Louis, Cubs rookie King Cole pitches
a 7-inning no-hitter to win 4-0. Cole will top the NL with a 20-4 record,
but will have only one more winning season. The game was called in the
last of the 7th with the Cubs ahead and having the bases loaded, so that
both clubs could make train connections to the east coast. The Cubs took
the opener, 9-3, behind Three Finger Brown.

In the first of two at White Sox Park, good fielding Lee Tannehill hits a
wind blown fly ball that bounces under a outfield gate for a grand slam HR,
the first in the new park. It is his first homer since 1903. But Ty Cobb
supplies a homerun, off Ed Walsh, the first by a visiting player, to give
the Tigers a 6-5 win over the Sox. Chicago will hit two more homers at home
in 1910, and both of those will bounce under outfield gates as well.

1911
Phils rookie Alexander, who beat the Cubs yesterday in relief, loses a
matchup with Three Finger Brown, 4-2. The Phils, at 56-38, are in 4th place.

1912
Ty Cobb goes 1 for 4 in Detroit's 4-1 victory over Washington at Navin
Field. The Tiger outfielder's single is his 68th hit in 137 at-bats (.535)
during July, the most ever collected in a single month by a major leaguer.

A day after the Braves went 14 innings to beat St. Louis, they go 19
innings with the Pirates. Lefty Otto Hess going all the way for Boston. The
Pirates score 3 in the 19th, and the Braves come back with 2, losing
7-6. Honus Wagner, who earlier stole home, drives in the final run for
Pittsburgh. Wagner, at 38, is the oldest player in the NL.

1914
Red Sox owner Joe Lannin buys the Providence Grays (IL) and Melrose Park
from the Detroit Tigers for $75,000. Detroit gets to pick one player
from the Providence roster and they select P Red Oldham, overlooking Carl
Mays. Detroit then purchases the Buffalo (IL) team.

1915
At West Side Park, the Cubs split their 2nd doubleheader in a row with
the Giants. Cy Williams belts a 3-run homer in the 4th to chase Christy
Mathewson and Chicago wins, 7-3. New York takes the nitecap, 9-2, scoring
5 runs in the 1st inning.

Dave Davenport of St. Louis (FL) splits a pair of 1-0 games in a doubleheader
with Buffalo, winning the first and losing the 2nd. He gives up just 5
hits all afternoon, and just one in his losing effort, and becomes the only
pitcher to be involved in two 1-0 decisions in one day.

1916
The Giants take two from Pittsburgh, winning both by 7-0 scores. Slim Sallee
and Jeff Tesreau are the winners.

Babe Ruth fires a two-hitter, allowing hits by Cobb and Burns, for a 6-0 win
for the first place Red Sox over the Tigers. Ruth adds two hits at the plate.

1917
The Red Sox win their 7th straight, beating Chicago, 5-2, and taking the
AL lead from Chicago.

The Cubs swap pitcher Al Demaree to the Giants for infielder Pete Kilduff.

1918
The Yankees and Detroit split a pair, New York winning the opener 5-3 and
Detroit, behind Cobb's double and triple, taking the nitecap, 6-2. Cobb,
leading the AL in hitting, is 5 for 7 today.

At Brooklyn, Zach Wheat has five hits to lead the Robins to a sweep of the
Cardinals, 2-1 and 7-2. Wheat has now hit in 19 straight games.

Washington is a 3-2 winner over the White Sox as Walter Johnson strikes out 11
in recording the win over Frank Shellenback. Johnson is 2 for 3 with a triple.

Bullet Joe Bush stops the host Browns, 8-4. He also helps the Boston offense
going 4 for 4 with two doubles and two runs scored.

1919
AL Prexy Johnson suspends Carl Mays indefinitely and orders umpires not to
let him pitch for New York.

Waite Hoyt, 19, makes his ML debut pitching in place of the departed Mays,
and hurls a 12-inning 2-1 win over the Tigers. Red Sox teammate Babe Ruth
has 2 singles and 2 doubles in 6 trips, and his 2-out single off the first
baseman's glove in the 12th helps the Sox to victory. Pinch runner McNally,
running from 1B, is caught in a rundown between 3B and home when the umpire
rules that Ainsmith interferes with McNally. The interference ruling gives
the Sox the winning run.

Reds pitchers Bob Fisher and Dolf Luque fire blanks at the Braves to win,
5-0 and 2-0. Fisher allows 3 hits in the lid lifter and Luque gives up 4
in the follow-up.

1921
After going 5 for 9 in a doubleheader yesterday, Phils rookie Goldie Rapp
goes hitless against Chicago's Charles Ponder to snap his hitting streak
at 23 games, a since-topped rookie record. Philadelphia wins, 10-2, behind
Jesse Winters.

1926
At Chicago, Babe Ruth breaks a 1-1 tie with an 8th-inning homerun to the
deepest part of the right centerfield bleachers. The Yankees win, 2-1,
for Sam Jones, for their 10th win in a row.

At St. Louis, the Senators win, 9-0, behind Walter Johnson's 112th career
shutout. Goose Goslin has a homer in the 5th.

At Cleveland, the Indians beat the Red Sox, 6-2, for their 6th win in a row,
but lose the services of CF Ira Flagstead when he breaks his collarbone
diving for Lutzke's soft liner.

At Detroit, the A's bash the Tigers, 9-6. Al Simmons has a "freak" homer
and Sammy Hale clouts a grand slam in the 5th.

1928
The Cards pick up a win over the last-place Phillies, 18-5, scoring 16
of their runs from the 5th inning on. After Phils shortstop Heine Sand,
thinking there were 3 outs in the 5th, tosses the ball in the middle of
the diamond, Chick Hafey scores from first on the blunder, and 4 more Cards
plate runs in the inning. Taylor Douthit has 5 hits for the 1st-place Cards.

At Ebbets Field, the Robins come from behind to beat the Reds, 3-2. With
two RBIs from Jake Flowers, Dazzy Vance is victorious over "the toiling
citizens of the American Rhine" (NY Times).

1929
At Yankee Stadium Babe Ruth hits a fungo 447 feet in an unofficial test,
beating all trial competition records. The old mark was held by Ed Walsh,
who hit a ball 419 feet 6 inches in 1911. In the game today the Yanks crush
the White Sox, 16-2, as Gehrig has a HR and reaches base 5 times.

The Athletics keep their AL lead at 9 1/2 games by beating up on the Tigers,
10-1, scoring 9 times in the 4th inning. Alexander has a HR for the Bengals'
only tally off Rube Wahlberg.

Braves OF Lance Richbourg leads Boston to a 1st game win over the Cubs, 7-1,
when he lines a record-tying three triples in the opener against Charlie
Root. Veteran Socks Seibold, out of the majors for 10 years, picks up the
win on his way to a team-high 12 victories. Pat Malone takes the nitecap
for Chicago, 6-3.

1930
Hazel Johnson, wife of Senators manager Walter, dies in Washington. She
suffered from heat exhaustion after driving from Kansas last week in what
is the hottest month to date in U.S. history. She leaves 5 children.

Yankee Lou Gehrig hits his 7th career grand slam, off Boston's Ed Durham,
to lead the Yankees to a 14-13 slugfest over the Red Sox. The Yanks have now
slugged 5 grand slams in the past 5 weeks. The 'Iron Horse' collects eight
RBIs today with the grand slam and two doubles in the Fenway Park contest.

The Giants use a 20-hit attack to subdue the Braves, 11-5. Fred Lindstrom
has four singles to reach the 1,000 hit level at age 24.

1932
Cleveland plays its first game in new Municipal Stadium before a crowd
of 80,184 (paid attendance of 76,979), the largest crowd in baseball
history. But Mel Harder loses to the A's Lefty Grove 1-0 on Cochrane's RBI
single. Municipal Stadium will be the only new park built between the opening
of Yankee Stadium in 1923 and Candlestick Park in 1960. From 1932 through
1946, the Tribe will play about 40% of their games at Municipal Stadium,
with the other 60% at League Park.

1934
At Cincinnati's Crosley Field, the Cardinals beat the Reds, 8-6, in 18
innings. Redbird hurler Dizzy Dean gets the win defeating Tony Freitas in
a game in which both starting pitchers go the distance.

When the Cards and the Cubs resume playing the protested game of July 2 at
Wrigley Field, Chicago still wins. The final score this time is 7-1 instead
of 7-4, with Lon Warneke winning over Bill Walker. Warneke allows one hit in
2 innings, then continues in the 2nd game, winning that as well, 7-2. Paul
Dean takes the loss. The outcome of the replay does not change the standings
since the Cubs' win has already been entered into the official standings, but
the individual performances in the replay replace those in the original game.

The Pirates overcome a grand slam by Ernie Lombardi to beat the Reds, 7-5,
in a 10-inning nightcap at Crosley Field. The Reds take the opener, 6-4.

1935
The Reds oversell their 6th night game, and an overflow crowd of 30,000 jam
in for the match against the Cards. About 5,000 are ringed around the field
and kept back by ropes and one female fan is severely injured by a line
drive during the game. Fans in the lower boxes are forced to stand if they
want to see. The Reds come from behind to win it in the 10th, 4-3. Goodman
hits a ground-rule double and scores on a single by Billy Sullivan to hand
the Cards their 9th loss in 10 games. Manager Frankie Frisch plays for the
first time since June 28 and has 2 hits. With the Cards ahead 2-1 in the 8th
inning, Kitty Burke, a nightclub singer who had kidded with Joe Medwick about
hitting, slips under the ropes around the infield and grabs a bat out of the
hands of Babe Herman and stands in against Paul Dean. Dean lobs a pitch and
she grounds out and Cards manager Frisch demands it count as an at-bat. Kitty
later tours the burlesque circuit as the only woman to bat in the Bigs.

Judge Emil Fuchs, president of the Boston Braves since 1925, forfeits his
majority stock and retires.

Two AL pitchers each hit two HRs in a game. For the 3rd time in his career,
Wes Ferrell clouts a couple, against Buck Newsom of the Senators, and knocks
in 4 runs in a 6-4 win for Boston. Mel Harder hits 2 for Cleveland but loses
6-4 to the White Sox. No other hurlers will hit 2 HRs this season. Ferrell
will end the year with 52 hits, tying George Uhle's record for a pitcher,
and he will knock in 32 runs to set a ML record. His 38 lifetime homers
will set a ML record.

1936
Behind Lefty Grove and Jimmy Foxx, the visiting Red Sox top the White Sox,
7-3. Grove wins his 13th on 7 hits, while Double X bangs his 30th homer,
a triple and a double. Boston sub Moe Berg adds a triple, double and single
off Ted Lyons.

At the Polo Grounds, the Giants manage just 4 hits off Chicago's Larry French
and lose, 3-1. The Terrymen's only tally is a homer by Hank Lieber. The
loss leaves the front-running Cubs a game ahead of the Cards.

Led by Lou Gehrig, who clouts his 33rd homer, the Yankees down the Indians,
11-7, at League Park. The loss snaps the Tribe's five-game win streak, and
leaves the Yankees 8 1/2 games ahead of Cleveland. Gehrig and Red Rolfe
clout homers in the 5th to chase Mel Harder, but the Indians answer with
three doubles by Earl Averill and a homer by Hal Trosky. Hadley, with relief
from Johnny Murphy, hangs on for his 9th win.

In Berlin, a preliminary international organization is effected, whose
aim is to put baseball permanently on the Olympic program. Leslie Mann and
Dinty Dennis, the manager and GM of the U.S. team here to give exhibitions,
are elected chairman and secretary. Mann is assured that at least 10 teams
will participate in the group, including the U.S., Japan, Mexico, Chile,
China, England, the Netherlands, Belgium, France and Canada. Mann says that
baseball will be on the official program for the 1940 Olympics in Japan.

1937
The New York Yankees purchase the Kansas City Blues from Johnny Kling,
who has had full control of the team since 1935. Yankee owner Ruppert will
change the name of the Muehlebach Stadium to Ruppert Stadium, and reinstitute
segregated seating, which Kling had abolished.

1938
After New York wins the opener, 5-1 behind Monte Pearson, New York's Spud
Chandler pitches all 15 innings as the visiting Yankees beat the White
Sox, 7-3. In a postgame radio interview with Bob Elson, Jake Powell of the
Yankees will make headlines with remarks about "beating up n*****s and then
throwing them in jail" as part of his off-season duties as a policeman. For
the statements, Judge Landis suspends Powell for 10 days. According to
historians Dan Okrent and Steve Wulf, after Powell's suspension, the
outfielder went to Harlem and worked his way south stopping in every bar
to buy drinks and apologize for his remarks.

1939
The Cardinals, partial to MacPhail's yellow-dyed baseballs, use them at
Sportsman's Park to beat the Dodgers, 5-2.

1940
The Phils beat up the Cubs, 7-3, at Shibe Park, as the Cubs lose Augie
Galan as well. The veteran left fielder breaks his left kneecap in the 5th
inning when he crashes into the concrete wall, and is out for the year. Galan
injured the same knee three days before the end of the 1938 season. Earlier
the Cubs lose Gabby Hartnett when he is struck by Mel Mazzera's bat after
the latter strikes out. Hugh Mulcahy, staked to a three-run lead in the
4th when Johnny Rizzo homers, keeps the Cubs scoreless till the 8th.

The Indians rally for four runs in the 8th inning to trip the Red Sox,
12-11. Jimmy Foxx returns to the Sox lineup as catcher and has two hits
and two RBIs. The move behind the plate is to keep hard-hitting Lou Finney,
the first major leaguer to reach 100 hits this season, at first base.

Detroit (57-38) remains in a tie for first place with Cleveland, by beating
the Yankees, 7-6, in 11 innings. The Tigers thought they had the game won
when Pinky Higgins hit a bases-loaded triple in the 8th to make it 5-4. In
the 11th, two walks by Lefty Gomez and a Hank Greenberg single ends it.

Pony League umpire James Gaynor quits baseball to enter the service, the
first professional umpire to enter the military for WW2.

1941
In the first game of a twinbill, the Browns outlast the Red Sox, 16-11,
scoring 6 runs in the 9th. The game takes 3 hours 11 minutes, the longest
regulation AL game up to this time. Roy Cullenbine has 2 official at-bats,
but scores 5 runs and knocks in 5. He hits a grand slam as does Ted Williams
for Boston. In game 2, the Sox win, 4-1 in a game called after 7 1/2 innings
because of a thick mist covering the field.

1943
Dodger Dolph Camilli, the league's MVP in 1941, is traded with Johnny
Allen to the Giants for Bill Sayles, Bill Lohrman and Joe Orengo. Camilli
declines to report to his new team and retires to a California ranch for
the season. Next year he will manage in the PCL and in 1945 will return
briefly to the Red Sox. Allen goes to the Giants for the $7500 waiver price.

1944
The last place Dodgers beat the Cards' Mort Cooper, 5-1, for only their
5th win of the month. 'Da Bums' are 31 1/2 game out of 1st.

1946
Cleveland's Bob Feller wins his 20th, shutting out the Red Sox on one hit
while striking out 9. Bobby Doerr's single in the 2nd inning is Boston's lone
hit, the 2nd time he has had a hit to break up a Feller no-hitter. Feller's
two-run triple is half the offense as the Indians prevail, 4-1.

In Philadelphia, the Reds sweep a pair from the Phillies, winning 4-3
and 2-0. In game 2, Ewell Blackwell is lifted with one out in the 9th,
and Harry Gumbert finishes the shutout. Blackwell, who will end the season
with 9 wins, is often given credit for today's shutout, which would give
him 6 for the year. Only Fred Norman, in 1972, will notch 6 shutouts with
fewers than 10 wins.

The Cubs beat the Giants, 8-1, behind Claude Passeau's 3-hitter. Johnny Gee
takes his first loss since returning to the Giants after a year's retirement.

1947
The Reds top the Giants, 8-7, despite a HR by Walker Cooper, the 55th of
the month for the Giants, an NL record. The Twins will tie this mark in
May of 1964.

1948
With a 7-6 win over the Cards, the Braves lengthen their lead over the
Pirates and the Dodgers in the NL.

1949
Sid Gordon of the New York Giants blasts 2 HRs in the 2nd inning of game 2,
as the Giants sweep the Reds, 10-0 and 9-0, behind Larry Jansen and Adrian
Zabala. The 19 runs to zero in a twinbill sets a NL mark, 7 runs behind
the AL record.

Ted Gray and Freddie Hutchinson each toss shutouts as the Tigers win two
from the A's, 3-0 and 6-0. For Hutchinson, it is the 2nd time in 5 weeks
he's teamed up on a doubleheader shutout.

1951
In an 8-6 Red Sox loss to the Browns, Clyde Vollmer doubles to finish the
month with 13 homers, 4 doubles and a triple among his 31 hits. "Big Un"
knocks in 40 runs with his outburst.

The White Sox lose their 10th out of 11 games, dropping a 4-2 decision
to the A's. Alex Kellner is the winner as Hank Majeski has 3 hits and 3
runs. The Sox are now 7 1/2 games out.

The Dodgers win their 10th in a row, defeating the host Pirates, 8-3. Don
Newcombe earns his 15th win and 9th in a row. Newk also collects 3 of the
Flatbushers' 16 hits.

The Browns acquire Cliff Mapes from the Yankees, sending Bobbie Hogue,
Kermit Wahl, Tom Upton and Lou Sleater to New York. The trade frees up an
outfield spot for Mantle's return as well as Mapes #7 uniform.

1953
At St. Louis, Carl Erskine fans 11, giving him 31 in his last 3 games, as the
first-place Dodgers beat the Cards, 2-1. The OF has just 3 putouts. Erskine
finishes the month at 6-0.

1954
Using a borrowed bat, Dodger killer Joe Adcock hits 4 HRs, off 4 different
pitchers, and a double for 18 total bases in the Braves' 15-7 victory at
Ebbets Field. The 18 total bases is a ML mark (topped by Shawn Green in
2002) and, combined with the 7 total bases from the day before, gives him
a 2-day tally of 25. The 2-game total ties him with Ty Cobb. Adcock scores
5 runs. Joining in on the fun is Eddie Mathews who adds two homers which,
for those keeping score, is a HR record for an infield. Another ML mark is
set for extra bases on long hits (40), with the Braves contributing 27.

1955
The Indians obtained Sal Maglie (9-5) off waivers from the Giants who
releases the 38-year-old right-hander because of his ailing back. The
'Barber', who will be used sparingly in Cleveland, will become a major
cog next season in the Dodgers' National League championship after being
acquired by the team in May for $100.

Happy Anniversary, Joe. On the anniversary of his 4-HR game, Braves 1B Joe
Adcock has his arm broken by a pitch from Giant Jim Hearn. He will be out
for the season. Adcock's replacement, George Crowe, homers in the 7-3 loss
to the Giants. Mays starts the scoring with a HR off Spahn in the 1st.

In today's first game, Don Larsen wins 5-2, as the Yanks and Athletics
collaborate for 9 DPs, with the New Yorkers turning 6. The 9 ties an AL
record (topped in 1990), and the 12 for both games, also matches the AL
mark. Cloyd Boyer, who had 3 of his first 8 pitches hit for HRs - by Bauer,
Mantle and Berra - takes the loss.

Using the long ball, the Red Sox sweep a pair from the Tigers at Fenway,
7-3 and 3-2. Ted Williams thumps his 12th career grand slam in the opener,
part of a 6-run 4th inning. Frank Sullivan is the CG winner. Piersall's
leadoff homer in the 9th of game 2 ends that contest and makes a winner of
young Frank Baumann, relieving in his ML debut. A highlite of the nightcap is
Harvey Kuenn's moving background in the 7th inning to distract Williams. On
the first pitch by Hoeft, the SS crosses over to the 2B side of the bag,
and Williams protests to Ed Rommel, who did not see the move. On the next
pitch, Kuenn bluffs a move and Rommel orders him to stop. That starts an
argument by Billy Hitchcock and Fred Hatfield, who are promptly tossed out
of the game by 3B ump Frank Umont. Kuenn moves again on the 6th pitch and
Williams fouls out. The umps then warn Detroit manager Bucky Harris that
Kuenn will be gone if he tries to distract another batter. Afterwards,
Kuenn defended himself, saying, "I was just moving with the pitch."

Led by Johnny Temple's 7 hits, the Reds sweep a pair from the visiting
Pirates, winning 6-5 and 7-4.

The AL-leading White Sox suffer a great blow as their leading pitcher,
Dick Donovan (13-4) undergoes an emergency appendectomy. He will miss 3 weeks.

Ty Cobb is a guest on the television show WHAT'S MY LINE.

1956
In front of 26,141 fans, including 1,000 standees, at Jersey City, Jackie
Robinson drives in all the Dodger runs in a 3-2 win over the Braves. Robinson
plays 3B, his third infield position since joining the Dodgers. The Braves'
scoring comes on a homerun, the 22nd game in a row that Milwaukee batters
have homered. The Braves have hit 39 homers in the stretch, a ML record for
the most homers in that number of consecutive games. The Dodgers hold the NL
record of 24 straight games, in 1953, a stretch that saw them hit 39 dingers.

1957
The Pirates lose to the Braves, in first place by 1/2 game, and Bob Buhl,
4-2. Bucs manager Bobby Bragan is ejected in the bottom of the 5th for making
obscene gestures. Before he departs, he strolls onto the field sipping an
orange drink through a straw and offers the umpires a sip. Two days later
Bragan will be fired by the Pirates.

In the first of two games at Kansas City, Bob Turley doesn't allow a runner
past 2B in pitching New York to a 2-0 win. Mantle hits a 3rd inning solo
shot off Wally Burnette for an insurance run.

The Dodgers' Ed Roebuck wins a deuce, beating the Cubs 3-2 and 2-1. Roebuck
beats Bob Rush in the opener with two innings of relief, then tops Don
Elston with another inning in the nightcap.

Pinch hitter Joe Nuxhall singles home the winning run in the bottom of the
11th inning to give the Reds a 6-5 win over the Phillies.

1959
Earl Wilson, the Red Sox' first black pitcher, makes his first start. He gives
up no hits against Detroit in 3 2/3 innings and leaves with a 4-0 lead after
walking 9. The Sox beat Detroit, 6-5, despite issuing 15 walks. Fornieles
is the winner.

Pedro Ramos holds Chicago to one hit in 7 innings but leaves with a sore
elbow, and the Sox score 2 in the 9th to beat the Senators, 2-1. It is
Washington's 14th loss in a row. The Sox lead Cleveland by 2 games.

1960
At Yankee Stadium, the A's push over three unearned runs in the 11th on
two throwing errors by 3B Hector Lopez to top New York, 5-2.

A game between Memphis and Chattanooga (Southern Association) is postponed
because the 94-degree weather is too much for the spectators in Memphis'
roofless Tobey Field.

1961
Due to heavy rain, the second 1961 All-Star game ends in a 1-1 tie after
9 innings at Fenway Park with Rocky Colavito's homerun accounting for
the American League's only run. (It is the first of two ties in All-Star
history. The other would occur in 2002.) Jim Bunning, the American League
starter, pitches three perfect innings again (he also did it in 1957)
making him the only All-Star hurler to accomplish the feat twice.

1962
At D.C. Stadium, Mantle is on the bench with a wrenched knee, but Skowron
supplies the power with a grand slam. New York wins, 9-5.

The NL rejects Commissioner Ford Frick's proposal for interleague play
in 1963.

1963
The Indians become the first AL club to hit 4 straight HRs. Number 8 hitter
Woody Held begins with a 2-out blast off Paul Foytack, pitcher Pedro Ramos
follows with his 2nd of the game, Tito Francona makes it 3 straight, and
rookie SS Larry Brown's first ML 4-bagger finishes the string. The newly
acquired Foytack (a former Tiger) sets a dubious ML record - the only pitcher
to give up 4 straight HRs - and there won't be another reliever who surrenders
4 in an inning until Embree in 2001. The Indians win 9-5 in the second of 2
with the Angels. Fred Whitfield, who has a grand slam in game 2, hits a solo
homer in game 1 off Newman for the only score. Barry Latman is the winner.

Ralph Terry of the Yankees, uses just 75 pitches in a five-hitter, winning
3-2 over the Kansas City A's. Terry has no walks and 5 strikeouts.

1964
The Giants take advantage of 3 errors by Bill Mazeroski and 2 by Bob Bailey
to tip the bumbling Bucs, 8-6. Maz' last error, on a potential DP ball in the
9th, helps the Giants score 3 runs. Willie Mays has 3 singles and 3 runs to
lead the attack. The Giants remain 1 1/2 games in back of the Phils, but learn
that Juan Marichal has back spasms and will not pitch again until August 25th.

At Philadelphia, 24,197 see Chris Short, with help from Jack Baldschun,
stop the Dodgers, 6-1. John Callison starts the Phils scoring with a 2-run
homer in the 1st, off Ron Moeller. Tommy Davis hits an 8th-inning double,
that caroms off 2B Tony Taylor's mouth, kayoing both Taylor and Chris
Short. Maury Wills has 4 singles and drives in the lone run.

The Cards send down Glen Hobbie and bring up knuckleballer Barney Schultz.

1965
After compiling a 5-7 record during the first four months of the season,
38-year-old Robin Roberts is released by the Orioles. Next week, he will be
picked by the Astros as a free agent, and the future Hall of Fame right-hander
will finish the season winning five of seven decisions along with posting
an ERA of 1.89 for his new team.

1967
Jack Hiatt belts a pinch hit grand slam off Pittsburgh's Elroy Face to give
the Giants an 8-4 win. Hiatt's pinch slam is the 1200th slam in ML history.

1968
Chicago's Billy Williams, Ernie Banks and Jim Hickman hit 4th-inning HRs
as Fergie Jenkins (12-10) beats the Astros, 6-1, at Wrigley Field.

1970
At California, Boston's Sonny Siebert beats the Angels, 2-0, on one hit, a
3rd-inning ground single by Jay Johnstone. Mike Andrews and Carl Yastrzemski
hit solo homers off Murphy for the scoring.

The Twins tie a ML mark with two pinch homers, by Manual and Allison, but the
Tigers prevail, 10-9, when 4 walks in the 9th score the tie-breaker. Elliot
Maddox receives a walk with the sacks full.

Behind the pitching of Dave McNally the Orioles beat the Royals, 3-1,
for their 21st consecutive win over Kansas City. This ties an AL record.

The Reds lose a doubleheader to the visiting Cubs, 7-1 and 11-7, and lose
rookie star Wayne Simpson (14-3), who tears the rotator cuff in his pitching
arm. Simpson will come back, but will never be the same, going 22-28 in
the rest of his career.

1971
Orioles hurler Pat Dobson wins his eighth decision of the month blanking
the Royals, 4-0. It is the 12th consecutive victory since June 16th for
the Depew, NY native.

In a game that sees at least one team score in every inning until the ninth,
the Giants beat Pittsburgh at Candlestick Park, 15-11. San Francisco rookie
first baseman Dave Kingman's seventh-inning grand slam proves to be the
difference.

1972
Dick Allen becomes the first player since 1950 (Hank Thompson) - and seventh
player all time - to hit 2 inside-the-park homers in a game. Minnesota's
Bert Blyleven is on the mound in the first and the 5th when Allen connects
past Danny Darwin in CF. Chicago wins, 8-1 behind Stan Bahnsen, with Allen
driving in 5 with his homers.

Royals OF Amos Otis scores the game's only run, swiping home in the 4th
inning with a surprised John Mayberry at-bat. Otis reaches 3B when Angels
pitcher Nolan Ryan makes two of his three errors trying to pick his former
teammate off base. As Bob Davids notes, this is only the 2nd time in the
post-war years that a steal of home accounts for a game's only run.

Vida Blue retires the first 17 batters before Texas pitcher Rich Hand beats
out a surprise bunt in the 6th. Blue allows one other hit to win, 2-0,
for Oakland. Hand allows just 2 hits in 7 1/3 innings, but 2 errors and a
mental boner by LF Ford allows 2 runs. With a runner on 3B, Ford catches
Rudi's fly and trots in thinking it is the 3rd out. It is the 2nd. Rudi
adds another sac fly for the other run.

1973
The Tigers win a pair from the Brewers, 6-5 and 9-4, and end Dave May's AL
season-best hitting streak at 24 games.

The Reds sweep a pair from the Braves, winning 9-5 in the opener, then
scoring 5 runs in the 9th to take the nitecap, 13-11. Joe Morgan totals
3 homers and 7 RBIs for the afternoon. The Reds set a club record with 24
wins in the month of July.

1974
During a 7-4 loss to the Expos, the Cubs' Bill Bonham strikes out 4 batters
in the 2nd inning tying the ML record.

Ron Cey drives in 8 runs with a 3-run single (one on an error) and three-run
homers in the 8th and 9th to lead the host Dodgers to a 15-4 victory over
the Padres.

At Houston, the Reds' Don Gullett twirls a 2-hit 4-0 shutout over the
Astros. Roger Metzger has both Astro hits.

1975
Giants pitcher John Montefusco predicts he'll shut out the Reds and strike
out Johnny Bench 4 times. The Count's a little off as the Reds score 7 runs
in 1 1/3 innings off Montefusco, 3 of the runs coming on a Bench homer. The
Reds win, 11-6.

1976
Reds reserve outfielder Ed Armbrister collects 4 hits, including 2 homers,
as the Reds pummel the Astros, 12-1. Armbrister's 2 homers are half his
career total and his only 2 for the year.

1977
Greg Nettles scores 3 runs to lead the Yankees to a 9-2 win over the A's,
the 8th win in 9 games for New York. The Yankees are a half game out of first.

1978
Pete Rose singles off Phil Niekro to extend his streak to 44 games as the
Reds edge the Braves, 3-2. Rose ties Willie Keeler's 81-year-old NL record,
achieved when foul balls didn't count as strikes.

After scoring just 5 runs in their last 6 games, the Red Sox break out with
a 9-2 win over the visiting White Sox. It is just the 3rd win for Boston in
its last 13 games. Dennis Eckersley (12-4) earns the win, scattering 6 hits,
while Rick Burleson has 3 hits including a bases-loaded double.

The Yankees stop Texas, 6-1, to move to 7 1/2 games behind Boston in the
AL East.

1980
The Rangers beat the Orioles, 7-4, snapping pitcher Steve Stone's 14-game
winning streak. Stone is 2 shy of the AL record of 16 consecutive wins.

1981
Fifty days after the strike began, the players and owners finally hammer
out an agreement that features a complicated pooling system for free-agent
compensation. Free agents will be classified according to their statistics,
with teams losing "Type A" players entitled to select one player from
the available compensation pool. Each team will be allowed to withhold 26
players from the pool, while a maximum of 5 clubs can agree not to sign
any Type A free agents and therefore not have to contribute to the pool at
all. The All-Star game will mark the end of baseball's first ever mid-season
work stoppage.

1982
Phillies 2B Manny Trillo misplays Bill Buckner's grounder in the 7th inning
of a 2-0 win over the Cubs, ending his errorless string at 89 games and 479
consecutive chances. He falls 2 games short of Joe Morgan's record 91-game
streak, and his 479 straight chances sets a ML record.

1983
Orioles Gold Glover Brooks Robinson, Giants ace Juan Marichal, ten-time
American League All-Star infielder George Kell, and long-time Dodger skipper
Walter Alston are inducted into the Hall of Fame. Marichal, the Dominican
Dandy, becomes the first Latin player to be enshrined at Cooperstown. The
total number of inductees in the HOF is now 184.

In the nitecap of a doubleheader, Pirates rookie Jose DeLeon holds the Mets
hitless for 8 1/3 innings before Hubie Brooks singles, but Mets starter Mike
Torrez pitches 11 shutout innings himself and New York goes on to win, 1-0,
in 12 innings. In his previous start, DeLeon had held the Padres hitless
for 6 1/3 innings. Mets reliever Jesse Orosco wins both games with 4 innings
of relief in the 11-inning opener, and an inning in the nitecap.

The Indians fire manager Mike Ferraro and replace him with Pat Corrales,
who was fired earlier this month by the Phillies. The team responds with
a 16-11 win over Toronto as Mike Hargrove scores 5 runs. The Tribe hits no
homers but Toronto hits 4.

1985
The Indians end Ron Guidry's win streak at 12 games, beating the Yankees,
6-5. Guidry and Waddell, the winner, each go 6+ innings.

At Boston, the White Sox-Red Sox game is called at the end of 7 innings
(11:34 p.m.) with the score tied 1-1. Since an 11-inning 4-4 tie with the
Angels on June 8, 1961, Boston had played 3,868 regular season games without
a tie, a ML record.

1986
Brian Downing and Bob Boone each hit grand slams off Oakland's Eric Plunk
to lead the Angels to an 8-5 victory.

1987
Eddie Murray hits his 299th and 300th career homeruns to lead Baltimore to
an 8-4 win over Texas.

1988
Jose Canseco belts 2 homeruns in the A's 6-2 win over Seattle to become
the first player to hit 30 or more homeruns in each of his first 3 ML seasons.

The Maddux brothers face each, with Greg (15-5) losing to Mike (3-1) to
even their record against each at one apiece. The Phillies score 6 runs in
6 innings off Greg, while Mike allows 3 Cub runs in 7 innings. Mike also
adds an RBI single.

1989
The Mets obtain Frank Viola, last season's American League Cy Young Award
winner, from the Twins for Rick Aguilera, Tim Drummond, Kevin Tapani, Jack
Savage and David West. 'Sweet Music' hits a sour note in New York posting
a 38-32 record in 82 starts with a team which fails to make the play-offs
during his 2 1/2 year tenure in the Big Apple. Viola is the first Cy Young
winner to be traded during the following season. Tapani will blossom into
a Cy Young contender in 1991.

1990
Texas' Nolan Ryan becomes the 20th pitcher to win 300 games as he defeats
the Brewers in Milwaukee, 11-3, before 51,533 fans, the second largest
crowd of the season. On August 4, the Brewers draw a season high 52,198 fans
to see the White Sox defeat the Brewers, 9-6. The 43-year-old from Alvin,
Texas will compile 324 victories during his 27-year big league career.

1991
The Astros trade P Jim Clancy to the Braves for P Matt Turner and a player
to be named later.

The Expos trade recently acquired P Ron Darling to the A's for 2 minor
league pitchers.

The Phillies trade P Roger McDowell to the Dodgers for P Mike Hartley and
OF Braulio Castillo.

Two-sport star Deion Sanders of the Atlanta Braves, playing in his final
game of the season with the Braves before having to report to the Atlanta
Falcons' training camp, hits a three-run homer to spark a come-from-behind
8-6 win over the Pittsburgh Pirates.

1993
The Expos retire Gary Carter's uniform prior to their game with Florida.

Toronto obtains OF Rickey Henderson from the Athletics in exchange for
minor leaguers Steve Karsay and Jose Herrera.

The Reds trade P Tim Belcher to the White Sox for pitchers Johnny Ruffin
and Jeff Pierce.

The Pirates trade P Stan Belinda to the Royals for pitchers John Lieber
and Dan Miceli.

1994
The Giants beat the Rockies, 9-4, as 3B Matt Williams hits his 39th and 40th
HRs of the year. This gives him a new NL mark for homers through July. The
previous standard was 36. The all-time record of 41 was set by Babe Ruth
in 1928, and tied by Jimmie Foxx 4 years later.

Jeff Bagwell's 36th homer is the only Astro score in their 7-1 loss, but
he ties a club record with 29 RBIs for the month. His 105 ribbies through
July is the 4th best in NL history.

Steve Carlton, Leo Durocher, and Phil Rizzuto are inducted into baseball's
Hall of Fame.

The Phillies trade OF Milt Thompson to the Astros in exchange for P Tom Edens.

1995
The Mets trade former two-time Cy Young Award winner right-handed pitcher
Bret Saberhagen and left-handed pitcher farmhand Dave Swanson (the player
to be named later) to the Rockies for righties Juan Acevedo and Arnold Gooch.

White Sox OF-1B John Kruk singles in the 1st inning of Chicago's game against
the Orioles. He immediately announces his retirement and is replaced in the
3rd inning. The hit gives Kruk a lifetime BA of exactly .300. The Orioles
win, 8-3.

The Red Sox acquire P Mike Stanton from the Braves in exchange for a two
players to be named. In a month the Braves will receive Mike Jacobs and
Marc Lewis, while sending the Sox Matt Murray.

The Tigers trade P David Wells to the Reds in exchange for pitchers
C.J. Nitkowski and Dave Tuttle, and a player to be named.

The Twins trade pitchers Kevin Tapani and Mark Guthrie to the Dodgers for
pitchers Jose Parra and Greg Hansell, and IF Ron Coomer.

The Mariners obtain P Andy Benes and a player to be named from the Padres
for P Ron Villone and OF Marc Newfield.

1996
The Mariners club the Brewers, 9-3, hitting 7 homers in the game. Buhner,
Griffey and Rodriguez each have a pair, with Brian Hunter adding one. Sterling
Hitchcock (11-4) is the winner.

At the trading deadline, Detroit trades 1B-DH Cecil Fielder, 32, to the
Yankees for OF-DH Ruben Sierra and minor league P Matt Drews. It is the first
swap in major league history in which two players with more than 220 homeruns
are traded for one another. The Yankees also obtain P David Weathers from
the Marlins for P Mark Hutton, but will send him to the minors in 3 weeks.

The Padres acquire OF Greg Vaughn, with 31 homers at Milwaukee, and a
player to be named in exchange for P Bryce Florie, P Ron Villone and OF
Marc Newfield. Vaughn will end the season with 117 RBIs, the first player
to top 100 while playing in 2 leagues in a season.

The Angels trade IF Damion Easley to the Tigers in exchange for P Greg Gohr.

The Phillies trade P Terry Mulholland, 33, to the Mariners in exchange for
struggling blue chipper Desi Relaford.

The Dodgers obtain OF Chad Curtis from the Tigers in exchange for pitchers
Joey Eischen and John Cummings. Curtis will lead off in place of the
cancer-stricken Brett Butler.

The Red Sox send vet Mike Stanton to the Rangers for two young relievers,
Mark Brandenburg and Kerry Lacy. The deal is made at 11:55 p.m.

1997
The White Sox jump out to a 9-0 lead over the Angels in the second inning,
then hold on to record a 14-12 victory. Rookie Mike Cameron leads Chicago
with 5 RBIs, while Todd Greene gets 4 hits and drives home 6 runs for
Anaheim in a losing cause.

Baseball's premier power hitter, Mark McGwire, leaves the A's for the
St. Louis Cardinals, who send three pitchers to Anaheim. McGwire's five-year
$28 million contract runs out at the end of this year and Anaheim fears
they will not be able to sign him. The A's receive minor leaguers Eric
Ludwick and Blake Stein, along with T.J. Mathews (4-4).

How do you spell relief? In a fine move for Boston, the Red Sox send reliever
Heathcliff Slocumb to the Mariners for minor leaguers Jason Varitek and
Derek Lowe. Slocumb will not last a season in Seattle, while Varitek and
Lowe will become key members of the 1999 Sox. The Mariner's also ship budding
star Jose Cruz Jr to Toronto for relievers Mike Timlin and Paul Spoljaric.

The San Francisco Giants receive starting pitchers Wilson Alvarez and Danny
Darwin, along with top reliever Roberto Hernandez, from the Chicago White
Sox. The White Sox, just 3 1/2 games behind Cleveland in the AL Central,
receive minor league SS Mike Caruso, OF Brian Manning, and Ps Lorenzo Barcelo,
Keith Foulke, Bob Howry and Ken Vining. In the house cleaning, the Sox have
moved 8 players with a combined 92 years of ML experience. Sox 3B Robin
Ventura observes, "We didn't realize August first was the end of the season."

In a swap of the infirmed, the Indians send pitchers Scott Winchester,
Danny Graves, Mike Crowell and INF Damien Jackson to the Reds for veteran
P John Smiley (9-10 in 1997) and infielder Jeff Branson. The 3 new Reds
pitchers all have had rotator cuff surgery, Smiley is out for the year with
a broken arm, and Jackson has had knee surgery.

Minutes before the midnight trading deadline, the Tribe adds P Jeff Juden,
sending P Steve Kline to the Expos.

In a South Atlantic League game at Hickory, pitcher Jason Lakman has
16 strikeouts in 7 innings, including 7 in a row and 5 in the fifth
inning. Augusta beats Hickory, 4-0.

1998
Chicago's Albert Belle hits his 16th HR of the month to set a new major
league mark for July. His HR helps the White Sox to a 10-2 win over the
Rangers. Frank Thomas hits a grand slam and drives in 5 runs for Chicago.

Oakland defeats Cleveland, 12-2. Down by 9 runs in the 8th inning, the
Indians bring OF Mark Whiten in to pitch. The strong-armed Whiten allows 1
run on a double, HBP (Spiezio), and 2 walks, but also strikes out 3 batters
(Blowers, Tejada, Neill) He becomes the only player in major league history,
with at least 1 inning pitched, to get every out with a strikeout.

Kevin Brown wins his 10th straight for the Padres, beating the Expos,
5-4. He strikes out 10 for the 2nd straight game. Greg Vaughn adds his 39th
homer and Trevor Hoffman saves his 35th.

In a flurry of transactions at the trading deadline, many involving
free-agents-to-be, the Mets trade OF Bernard Gilkey, P Nelson Figueroa and
cash to the Diamondbacks in exchange for P Willie Blair, C Jorge Fabregas
and a player to be named. New York then obtains IF-OF Tony Phillips from
the Blue Jays for P Leoncio Estrella, and sends the Brewers P Bill Pulsipher
for IF Mike Kinkade.

The Rangers trade P Darren Oliver and 3B Fernando Tatis to the Cardinals
in exchange for P Todd Stottlemyre and SS Royce Clayton. The Rangers get
3B Todd Zeile from the Marlins in exchange for 3B Jose Santo and P Daniel
De Young. Tatis will hit .287 with 11 homers this year in St. Louis, but
Zeile will help by reaching base 11 straight times during a critical 3 game
stretch in September. Zeile completes the broom-cleaning of the Marlins'
vets for rookies.

The Blue Jays trade P Juan Guzman to the Orioles for P Nerio Rodriguez and
OF Shannon Carter.

The Expos trade P Carlos Perez, SS Mark Grudzielanek and OF Hiram Bocachica
to the Dodgers in exchange for 2B Wilton Guerrero, P Ted Lilly, OF Peter
Bergeron and 1B Jonathan Tucker.

The Rockies trade OF Ellis Burks to the Giants for OF Darryl Hamilton,
P James Sloops and a player to be named.

After the talks indicate the Yankees or Cleveland, the Mariners trade flame
thrower Randy Johnson to the Astros in exchange for IF Carlos Guillen,
P Freddy Garcia and a player to be named.

The Cubs trade 3B Kevin Orie, P Todd Noel and P Justin Speier to the Marlins
for pitchers Felix Heredia and Steve Hoff.

The Blue Jays trade vet 3B Ed Sprague to the A's for P Scott Rivette.

The Twins trade P Greg Swindell and 1B-OF Orlando Merced to the Red Sox in
exchange for P Matt Kinney, Joe Thomas and John Barnes.

1999
With the wind blowing out at Wrigley the Cubs spot 7 runs to the visiting
Mets before coming back to win, 17-10. Gary Gaetti hits his 11th career
grand slam and Sammy Sosa clubs his 39th and 40th homers to take the ML
lead. Sosa adds an RBI single and a stolen base. Robin Ventura paces the
Mets going 4 for 5 with 2 homers and 6 RBIs. Both starters, Dotel (in 2 IP)
and Lieber (in 4 1/3 IP) give up 9 runs each. Despite making an unassisted
DP on a botched squeeze bunt, Jason Isringhausen is the losing pitcher,
allowing 5 runs in 3 innings. His reward is a trade today as the Mets send
him to Oakland for Greg McMichael.

For the second game in a row, Barry Bonds hits homers in his first two
at-bats. Today he clubs a 3-run homer in the first and a 2-run homer in
the 3rd to pace the Giants to an 11-1 victory over the Reds.

The Athletics nab sought-after ace Kevin Appier from the Royals for pitchers
Brad Rigby, Blake Stein and Jeff D'Amico.

The Reds obtain P Juan Guzman and cash from the Orioles in exchange for
pitchers B.J. Ryan and Jacobo Sequea.

The Yankees bring back C Jim Leyritz from the Padres for P Geraldo
Padua. Padua was 25-4 in 3 seasons in Class A, including a run of 20 straight
wins. Mysteriously, Padua will lose 14 straight in the minors in 2000 and earn
a release from Altoona (AA) in May of 2001 after serving up 3 straight homers.

The Braves obtain well-traveled P Terry Mulholland and IF Jose Hernandez
from the Cubs in exchange for pitchers Micah Bowie and Ruben Quevedo and a
player to be named. Hernandez, a free agent to be, turned down a 3-year $9
million offer from the Cubs. Bowie will post a 9.96 ERA for the Cubs and
an overall 10.24 ERA in 11 games, a ML record worst for 10+ appearances.

The Rockies obtain outfielders Brian McRae and Thomas Johnson and P Rigo
Beltran from the Mets for OF Darryl Hamilton and P Chuck McElroy. McRae
will last less than a week before moving on to Milwaukee.

2000
The Giants edge the Brewers, 4-3 in 11 innings, as Robb Nen sets a new major
league record with his 14th save of July, one shy of the mark for any month.

The Braves obtain OF B.J. Surhoff and P Gabe Molina from the Orioles in
exchange for OF Trenidad Hubbard and 2 minor leaguers.

The Cubs pick up oft-injured OF Rondell White from the Expos for P Scott
Downs. making Henry Rodriguez expendable. They then make their 5th trade in 11
days sending Rodriguez to the Marlins for 1B/OF Russ Gload and P Dave Noyce.

To fill in for injured 1B Mark McGwire, the Cardinals pick up vet 1B Will
Clark from the Orioles for 3B Jose Leon. Clark will hit .345 with 12 homers
and 42 RBIs in 171 at-bats as the Birds will go 37-20. The Cardinals also
obtain C Carlos Hernandez from the Padres in exchange for P Heathcliff
Slocumb. Two minor leaguers are also involved in the deal.

The Blue Jays obtain pitchers Steve Trachsel and Mark Guthrie from the
Devil Rays for 2 minor leaguers.

The Dodgers ship former Rookie of the Year Todd Hollandsworth, along with OF
Kevin Gibbs, and P Randey Dorame to the Rockies for OF Tom Goodwin and cash.

The Mariners obtain OF Al Martin from the Padres in exchange for OF John
Mabry and P Tom Davey.

The Padres obtain P Jay Witasick from the Royals for P Brian Meadows.

2001
The Red Sox acquire Expos reliever Ugueth Urbina for two minor league
pitchers, Tomo Ohka and Rich Rundles. The hard throwing closer was nearly
traded to the Yankees earlier in the season, but the deal was nixed when
the Caracas, Venezuela native failed a physical. Urbina's name was one of
the most widely mentioned in the rumors before the trade deadline.

Oakland scores 8 runs in the 3rd inning against Cleveland and go on to
defeat the Indians, 11-2.

Brewers manager Davey Lopes is suspended for 2 games and fined by the
commissioner's office for threatening to have his pitchers hit Rickey
Henderson. Lopes became upset when Henderson took off for 2nd base in the
7th inning of the Padres' 12-5 win on Sunday.

The July 31st trading deadline produces a frenzy of deal-making as 31
players change teams in a total of 12 deals on the last 2 days. A total of
68 players were involved in 24 deals in all of July.

The Indians get OF Milton Bradley from the Expos for P Zach Day.

The Pirates trade P Terry Mulholland to the Dodgers for pitchers Mike
Fetters and Adrian Burnside.

The Orioles send P Mike Trombley to the Dodgers for Ps Kris Foster and
Geronimo Gil.

The Royals ship SS Rey Sanchez to the Braves for P Brad Voyles and 2B
Alejandro Machado.

The Pirates trade P Mike Williams to the Astros for P Tony McKnight.

The Astros trade P Scott Elarton and a player to be named to the Rockies
for P Pedro Astacio.

The Cardinals trade lefty Jason Christiansen and cash to the Giants for
P Kevin Joseph. Joseph will go 0-1 in 11 relief appearances next year
for St. Louis, while Christianson will total 187 relief appearances for
the Giants.

2002
A plan to sell beer outside Boston's Fenway Park is approved on a trial basis
by city officials. During the 14 games, brew will be available three hours
before game time until one hour after games start to game ticket-holders
who pass through a turnstile.

The Rangers, in a 17-6 victory over the Yankees, hit six doubles in the
second inning, all off Mike Mussina. New York's starting pitcher joins Hall
of Famer Lefty Grove as only the second pitcher in major league history to
allow that many two-baggers in one frame.

The Angels obtain OF Alex Ochoa and C Sal Fasano from the Brewers in exchange
for C Jorge Fabregas and two players to be named.

The Red Sox get P Bobby Howry from the White Sox in return for pitchers
Frankie Francisco and Byeong Hak An.

The Cubs and Pirates swap outfielders with Chad Hermanson going to Chicago
and Darren Lewis to Pittsburgh.

The Rockies send OF Todd Hollandsworth and P Dennys Reyes to the Rangers
for OF Gabe Kapler and IF Jason Romano.

The Rockies trade P John Thomson and OF Mark Little to the Mets in exchange
for OFs Jay Payton and Robert Stratton, and P Mark Corey.

The Mets get pitchers Steve Reed and Jason Middlebrook from the Padres
for pitchers Bobby Jones and Josh Reynolds, and minor league OF Jason Bay,
obtained in March.

2003
Breaking his own record set a week later during last season, John Smoltz
becomes the fastest pitcher to record 40 saves. The Braves' closer throws
a scoreless ninth in the team's 7-4 victory over the Astros to establish
the new mark.

Oakland wins its 9th straight, edging Tampa Bay, 4-3. Rookie Rich Harden
earns the win with 10 K's in 7 innings. Devil Ray coaches Lee Elia and
John McLaren are tossed in the 5th for protesting a call, and TB starter
Jermi Gonzalez, who goes 8 innings in the loss, is also tossed, one of the
few times in memory that a pitcher throws a CG and earns an ejection. After
pitching the 8th, Gonzalez, who had complained about ump Joe Brinkman's calls,
continued his grumbling and finally fired a bucket of sunflower seeds onto
the field, earning him an ejection (which does not appear in the boxscore).

Did you guys even unpack? The Pirates trade pitchers Brandon Lyon and to
the Red Sox for left-hander Mike Gonzalez. Just a week ago, the Red Sox
had swapped Lyon and Martinez to the Pirates for Gonzalez, but Lyon had
a sore arm and the deal was rescinded. Whoops. On the mulligan today,
the Pirates add pitcher Jeff Suppan, while Boston throws in minor league
infielder Freddy Sanchez. Suppan will start just 10 games for the Sox,
while Sanchez and Gonzalez will star for the Bucs.

The Reds acquire pitchers Brandon Claussen and Charlie Manning and cash from
the Yankees for 3B Aaron Boone. They also send P Gabe White to the Yanks
for a player to be named. The deal had been for the 2 Reds players for the
Yankee players and about $1.4 million, but Selig vetoed the deal because
it exceeded the $1 million limit, forcing the teams to make it 2 transactions.

The Devil Rays send P Al Levine to the Royals for cash.

The Dodgers get 3B Robin Ventura from the Yankees for OF Bubba Crosby and P
Scott Procter. Ventura became available when the Yanks obtained Boone from
the Reds.

The Giants, vulnerable with Rueter going on the DL, obtain P Sidney Ponson
from the Orioles for a hefty package including pitchers Kurt Ainsworth,
Damian Moss, and blue chipper Ryan Hannaman. It is more of a rental as
Ponson will resign with the Orioles in January saying. "I love Baltimore."

In Arlington, the Boston Red Sox get solo homers from David Ortiz and Trot
Nixon but Texas Rangers shortstop Alex Rodriguez breaks a 3-3 tie with a
walkoff grand slam in the 9th to win it for his team, 7-3.

2004
With homers in his first two at-bats off Jorge Sosa, Carlos Delgado hits his
fifth homerun in five consecutive at-bats off the Devil Rays right-hander. The
Blue Jay slugger's streak started last season with a round-tripper on
September 10, and then was extended to three when the Tampa Bay hurler gave
up the first two dingers in his four homer day on September 25.

The long anticipated trade of Nomar Garciaparra is finally accomplished
when the Red Sox shortstop is traded to the Cubs as part of a four-team
deal which includes the Twins and Expos. Boston acquires shortstop Orlando
Cabrera (Expos) and first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz (Twins) with Nomar,
prospect Matt Murton and cash to Chicago which had shipped minor league
southpaw Justin Jones to the Minnesota for Mientkiewicz, who in turn is sent
along with Cubs shortstop Alex Gonzalez, relief pitcher Francis Beltran and
minor leaguer Brendan Harris to Beantown, which sends the trio of Gonzalez,
Beltran and Harris to the Expos for Cabrera.

Ten minutes prior to the trading deadline, Steve Finley gives the Diamondbacks
permission to deal him to the Dodgers. The trade sends the four-time gold
glove center fielder and backstop Brent Mayne to Los Angles for minor league
catching prospect Koyie Hill, flycatcher Reggie Abercrombie and southpaw
Bill Murphy, who was acquired in yesterday's trade with the Marlins.

A minute before the trading deadline, the Yankees deal the talented but
underachieving Jose Contreras (8-5 with a 5.64) and $3 million to the White
Sox for All-Star pitcher Esteban Loaiza (9-5, 4.86, a 20-game winner last
season). Both hurlers are 32 years old.

After a close call which goes against the Katy Cowboys, Kacy Clemens'
dad is asked to leave the youth baseball game. According to the league
officials, who will later apologize calling it a case of mistaken identity,
Roger Clemens is ejected from his son's championship game for arguing the
call and spitting sunflower seeds at an umpire's leg.

The Angels edge the Mariners, 9-8, in 11 innings. Seattle OF Ichiro Suzuki
hits a game-tying HR in the 9th to give him 50 hits for the month. He becomes
the 1st player since Joe Medwick in 1936 to have two 50-hit months in the
same season. He is also the 1st player since Pete Rose to have three 50-hit
months in his career.

The Red Sox obtain speedster Dave Roberts from the Dodgers.

The Braves obtain P Tom Martin and cash from the Dodgers for P Matt Merricks.

The Royals send P Rudy Seanez to the Marlins for OF Abraham Nunez.

2005
The almost traded Manny Ramirez comes off the bench and has the game-winning
hit in the eighth against the Twins in the Red Sox' victory. The embattled
Boston outfielder has caused much consternation in the Red Sox nation this
week due to his refusal to play and hustle for his short-handed team.

Among thousands of high-spirited Red Sox and Cubs fans and the 48 Hall of
Famers sitting on the dais, Wade Boggs and Ryne Sandberg are enshrined into
the Baseball Hall of Fame. Also inducted are Padres announcer Jerry Coleman,
winner of the Ford C. Frick Award, and sportswriter and broadcast analyst
Peter Gammon, recipient of the J.G. Taylor Spink Award.

For the second day in a row, the Yankees rally from a 4-run deficit to win
against the Angels, 8-7 in 11 innings. Chris Bootcheck, making his first
ML start, allows one run in 6 innings, while Bengi and Jose Molina each hit
HRs off Randy Johnson to give the Angels a 6-2 lead. The Yanks tie it up but
Mariano Rivera gives up a run in the 10th before the Yanks again tie. Tony
Womack drives in the game winner in the 11th. Jason Giambi has a pair of
homers to give him 300 for his career and 14 for the month, tying him with
Mantle who hit 14 in a month in 1961. The Molina homers are just the 21st
time a pair of brothers have homered for the same team in the same game;
the last pair to do it were the Giambi brothers on August 11, 2001.

The Braves acquire P Kyle Farnsworth from the Tigers in exchange for pitchers
Roman Colon and Zach Miner.

The Cubs exchange outfielders with the Pirates, sending recently acquired
Jody Gerut to Pittsburgh for Matt Lawton. Lawton won't last the month in the
Friendly Confines, as the Cubs send him to the Yankees for a minor leaguer.

The Red Sox get OF Jose Cruz Jr from the Diamondbacks, sending IF Kenny
Perez and P Kyle Bono to Arizona.

The Padres trade 1B/OF Phil Nevin to the Rangers for pitcher Chan Ho Park
and cash. Nevin had turned down trade offers from several East coast teams.

The Mariners send OF Randy Winn to the Giants for C Yorvit Torrealba and
P Jesse Foppert.

2006
The Dodgers trade infielder Cesar Izturis to the Cubs for 300-game winner
Greg Maddux. The last minute deadline deal, in which the future Hall of Famer
waived his no-trade clause, gives the 40-year-old hurler an opportunity to
go to a contender.

Hitting his third grand slam within a calendar month, Carlos Beltran becomes
the ninth player to equal the big league record. The Mets center fielder's
bases-filled homer is the Mets' sixth tying the 1996 Expos and the 1999
Indians for the most by a team in a calendar month.

With the wind blowing out at Wrigley Field, Orlando Hudson hits a homerun
from both sides of home plate. Batting left-handed in the third inning, the
Diamondbacks' second baseman goes deep off Mark Prior for his first career
grand slam, then right-handed nails a Glendon Rusch pitch for a two-run
homer in the seventh contributing to Arizona's 15-4 victory over the Cubs.

David Ortiz hits two homers, the second a walkoff blast, to give the Red
Sox a 9-8 win over Cleveland. "Big Papi" has four RBIs and surpasses the
previous pre-August high for the Sox of 104 set by both Ted Williams and
Vern Stephens in 1949. Both finished in a dead heat atop the majors that
season with 159 ribbies. Just six batters have reached 100 RBIs by the end
of July from 1940 through 1993, with Stephens doing it twice in back-to-back
seasons. Ortiz will end with 137 ribbies this year, below his mark for the
previous two seasons.

The Dodgers load up sending minor leaguers Joel Guzman and Sergio Pedroza
to the Devil Rays to obtain SS Julio Lugo. They also get 4-time Cy Young
Award winner Greg Maddux from the Cubs for INF Cesar Izturis.

The Padres get 2B Todd Walker from the Cubs for P Jose Ceda and cash.

The Rockies acquire Ps Jeremy Affeldt and Denny Bautista from the Royals
for P Scott Dohmann and 1B Ryan Shealy.

With Pittsburgh cleaning house, the Mets send OF Xavier Nady to the Pirates
for Ps Roberto Hernandez and Oliver Perez.

The Pirates also send P Kip Wells to the Rangers for P Jesse Chavez, and
trade OF/1B Craig Wilson to the Yankees for P Shawn Chacon.

The Rangers trade P Joselo Diaz to the Royals for 1B/OF Matt Stairs.

2007
The trading deadline prompts a busy day for the Braves when they deal eight
players in three different transactions including obtaining Mark Teixeira
and southpaw reliever Ron Mahay from the Rangers for the highly touted
rookie backstop Jarrod Saltalamacchia and four minor leaguers. Atlanta also
gets bullpen help from the Royals and Padres with Octavio Dotel and Royce
Ring joining the team for Kyle Davies, who will now pitch for Kansas City,
and Wil Ledezma and Will Startup are sent to San Diego.

Hitting eight homeruns in a 16-3 rout of the White Sox, the Yankees tie
a franchise record for round trippers. The Bronx Bombers' barrage, which
includes two long balls by left fielder Hideki Matsui, equals the power
surge of the game played in 1939 against the A's in Philadelphia's Shibe Park.

2008
At Yankee Stadium, a trio of Angels hit three-run homeruns as the team blasts
the Bronx Bombers, 12-6. The homers, all hit by LA's outfielders - Torii
Hunter, Vladimir Guerrero and Juan Rivera - account for nine of the dozen
runs scored as the club improves its record to 68-40, the best in baseball.

In a surprise trading-deadline deal, the Reds send future Hall of Famer
Ken Griffey Jr to the White Sox in exchange for right-hander Nick Masset
and minor league infield prospect Danny Richar. The All-Star outfielder,
who had to approve the move to Chicago, is completing his final season of
a nine-year contract, and didn't expect Cincinnati to pick up the $16.5
million club option for 2009.

In a three-team swap, the much anticipated departure of Manny Ramirez from
Beantown is finally accomplished with the unhappy outfielder being traded
to the Dodgers. Former Pirates player Jason Bay will now roam left field
for the Red Sox, with Pittsburgh receiving outfielder Brandon Moss and
pitcher Craig Hansen from Boston as well as getting third baseman Andy
LaRoche and right-hander Bryan Morris from Los Angeles to complete the
last-minute trading deadline deal.

2009
In a stunning last-minute deal, the White Sox obtain Jake Peavy from the
Padres for four pitching prospects:  Clayton Richard, Aaron Poreda, Dexter
Carter and Adam Russell. The 2007 NL Cy Young Award winner, presently on
the disabled list, had previously refused to waive his no-trade clause to
join Chicago in a siimilar deal proposed in May.

The Marlins acquire Nick Johnson from the Nationals in exchange for
left-handed pitching prospect Aaron Thompson. The 30-year-old injury-prone
first baseman's ability to get on base should provide more scoring
opportunities for a Florida team vying for a Wild Card berth.

2010
Carlos Gonzalez becomes the fifth player to complete the cycle with a walk-off
homerun. The Colorado left fielder, the leading hitter in the National
League, had previously singled in the first, tripled in the the third, and
stroked a double in the fifth before ending the game with his ninth-inning
blast giving the Rockies a 6-5 victory over Chicago at Coors Field.

2011
During a pre-game ceremony at the Rogers Centre, Roberto Alomar's
No. 12 becomes the first uniform number retired in the Blue Jays' 35-year
history. The newly inducted member of the Hall of Fame played five seasons
with Toronto, including the 1992-93 World Series championship teams.

In a five-player deal, the Braves, hoping to add offensive punch during
their run for the NL Wild Card, obtain Michael Bourn from the last-place
Astros. The speedy center fielder, who is currently hitting .303 and has
a major league-leading 39 stolen bases, gives the team its first bonafide
leadoff hitter since Rafael Furcal left after the 2005 season.

The Braves become only the second team in big league history with 10,000
losses along with the Phillies, who reached the milestone in 2007. The
franchise recently collected its 10,000th victory, including the team's
tenure in Boston and Milwaukee.

The Red Sox (66-40) continue their winning ways when they beat Chicago at
Fenway Park, 5-3. The eventual World Champs end the month with a 20-6 record,
the team's best July since 1952.

2012
With their 10-1 loss in Milwaukee, the Astros finish July with a dismal
3-24 record. Only the 1988 Orioles (April, 1-22), 1916 A's (July, 2-28),
1982 Twins (May, 3-26) and the 1943 A's (August, 3-26) have compiled worse
months in baseball history.

2014
On Facebook, 29-year-old Pete Frates, the former Boston College baseball
captain living with ALS, challenges The Howard Stern Show and a number of his
friends to participate in the 'Ice Bucket Challenge'. The post will become
one of the catalysts that sparks a viral call to action that will be taken
up by celebrities, including Matt Lauder, Ethel Kennedy, Martha Stewart
and former Red Sox captain Jason Varitek, to raise funds and awareness for
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, often referred to as Lou Gehrig's Disease.

