Jan 2

1912
Charles Ebbets announces the purchase of 4.5 acres of land in the Pigtown
section of Brooklyn to build an 18,000-seat concrete and steel stadium. The
location selected for his new ballpark, which will be the home of the Dodgers
until 1957, is presently a neighborhood which consists of deplorable housing
with piles of garbage everywhere. During the year Ebbets will ease his
pinched financial condition by selling half the team to Ed and Steve McKeever.

1915
The Cardinals sue to prevent OF Lee Magee, 25, from playing for the Brooklyn
Tip-Tops. Like similar suits filed by clubs against players in the past,
the action will fail. Magee will play and manage in the Federal League.

1918
In a deal which includes two future Hall of Famers, the Dodgers trade
outfielder Casey Stengel and infielder George Cutshaw to the Pirates for
pitchers Burleigh Grimes, Al Mamaux and infielder Chuck Ward. Grimes, known
as Ol' Stubblebeard, and Stengel, dubbed The Old Perfessor, will both be
enshrined in Cooperstown.

1940
With Mayor Fiorello La Guardia on hand, Lou Gehrig is sworn in as a member
of the New York City Parole Commission. Although the term is for ten years,
the former Yankee slugger will eventually become too ill even to sign his
name and will ask for a leave of absence next year.

1946
The White Sox buy P Alex Carrasquel and SS Fred Vaughan from the
Senators. Carrasquel will make only 3 appearances for Chicago before being
farmed out. When the Sox acquire his nephew Chico in 1949, the Sox will
swap Alex for reliever Luis Aloma, who will act as an interpreter for the
young Venezuelan shortstop.

1977
Ted Turner is suspended for one year by Commissioner Bowie Kuhn due
to tampering charges in the free-agency signing of Gary Matthews, but
the Braves are permitted to keep the outfielder. The Braves' owner, an
accomplished sailor, uses his free time to pursue another goal, winning
this year's America's Cup which he accomplishes in September.

1981
At Ponce, (Puerto Rican League) Santurce beats Ponce, 11-4. Ponce's Rickey
Henderson steals his 41st and 42nd bases, breaking the old league record
of 41 set by Carlos Bernier in the 1949-50 season. Henderson will finish
the season with 44 stolen bases.

1986
Bill Veeck, the former owner of the Browns, White Sox and Indians, dies of
cardiac arrest in Chicago. In addition to being well-known for his promotions
and ideas, which included a pinch-hitting midget, an exploding scoreboard
and putting players' names on the back of their uniforms, the innovative
Hall of Famer is also responsible for breaking the color barrier in the
American League signing Larry Doby to play for the Indians in 1947.

1992
Former Cy Young Award winner Frank Viola signs with the Red Sox as a free
agent. The southpaw, who will injure his arm and undergo 'Tommy John'
surgery while in Boston, will post a 25-21 record during his three seasons
with the team.

1996
The Red Sox sign free-agent hurler Jamie Moyer. The 33-year-old southpaw
will compile a 7-1 record for Boston before being traded in July to Seattle,
where he will enjoy a pair of 20-game victory seasons enroute to winning
over 100 games during his 11-year tenure with the Mariners.

2002
The Pirates sign free agent P Mike Williams to a 2-year contract. Williams
began last season with Pittsburgh until being traded to Houston in July.

2003
Due to a conflict with the major league schedule, the annual Hall of Fame
game, which has been held the day after new members are inducted since its
inception, will now take place on a different weekend. This year's contest
between the Phillies and Devil Rays will be played on June 16, five weeks
prior to the July 27 induction ceremonies at Cooperstown.

The Orioles sign free agent P Omar Daal to a 2-year contract.

The Cubs sign free agent IF Ramon Martinez to a contract.

2013
Avoiding arbitration, the Rays announced the team has reached an agreement
with left-handed starter David Price on a one-year deal, worth $10.1125
million. The 27-year-old American League Cy Young Award winner, who finished
with a 20-5 record and a 2.56 ERA last season, earned $4.35 million playing
for the third-place Tampa Bay club.

