Jan 3

1911
At Laughery club house, near Rising Sun, Indiana, the National Baseball
Commission adopts a rule that bars World Series winners from playing
post-season exhibition games. This obscure rule will lead to a direct
confrontation between Babe Ruth and Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis
in 1921.

1916
Former ace Ray Collins announces his retirement from baseball at age
29. Colllins slipped to 4-7 last season.

1919
The Giants pick up catcher Earl Smith from Rochester for a stiff price:
they send outfielders Joe Wilhoit and Bill Kelly, 1B Joe Rodriguez, and
pitchers Jack Ogden and Waite Hoyt in exchange. Hoyt got into just one game
for the Giants in 1918 but will develop into a Hall of Fame pitcher after
joining the New York Yankees via the Boston Red Sox.

1920
The secret deal made on December 26 to sell Babe Ruth to New York for
$125,000 (twice the amount ever paid previously for a player) is announced
publicly. Harry Frazee, the cash-strapped owner of the Red Sox, also secures
a $300,000 loan from the Yankees as part of the deal.

1923
The Yankees pluck 2 rookies from the Red Sox, P George Pipgras and OF Harvey
Hendrick, in exchange for 2nd-string C Al DeVormer.

1929
A newspaper in Texas carries a report "Negro Fan Dies From Blow," then
details how a gentleman identified as Lawson was struck when Waco first
baseman Art Shires unintentionally threw the ball into the stands. According
to the article, "Physicians reported that Lawson's death was due to a
spinal condition induced by the blow from the ball on the head." Members of
Lawson's family later filed suit against both Shires and the Waco Baseball
Association. The suit never came to court (Unsourced clipping, Hall of Fame,
Shires file).

1943
In a surprising move, Uncle Sam decides to draft 37-year-old Yankee
right-hander Red Ruffing into the Army. As a 15-year-old, the future Hall
of Famer lost four toes on his left foot in a mining accident in Coalton,
Illinois.

1944
White Sox star Luke Appling reports for duty at Camp Lee, VA. Appling was
the AL batting leader last season, finishing 2nd in the MVP voting.

1946
The Tigers trade first baseman Rudy York to the Red Sox for infielder Eddie
Lake. Lake will replace Skeeter Webb at shortstop, having two solid defensive
years with Detroit before a broken finger relegates him to a utility role
on the team, and York's offensive output, which includes 119 RBIs, will
help to propel Boston to the American League pennant.

1955
The Orioles purchase veteran OF Hoot Evers from the Tigers.

1961
Frank 'Trader' Lane assumes the post as the Kansas City A's general manager
and executive vice president. The former GM of the Indians will be best
remembered by Cleveland fans for his controversial swap last season of
popular outfielder Rocky Colavito to the Tigers in exchange for Harvey Kuenn.

1962
Adjacent to Colt Stadium, where the Colt .45s will play the first three
seasons of their existence, construction begins on the Harris County Domed
Stadium. The ballpark, the first enclosed 'outdoor sport' venue, will become
known as the Astrodome, and will be dubbed the "Eighth Wonder of the World".

1964
The Reds announce that manager Fred Hutchinson has contracted lung cancer. He
will begin two months of radiology treatment in Seattle and will make spring
training with the team.

1973
Heading a limited partnership that includes Lester Crown, John DeLorean and
Nelson Bunker Hunt, George Steinbrenner, a Tampa ship builder purchases the
Yankees from CBS for $10 million. 'The Boss' will become a well-known owner
due to his pursuit of expensive talent, well-publicize feuds with players
and baseball's brass, and the frequent firing of GMs and managers.

1974
Unable to pry Oakland A's skipper Dick Williams away from Finley, the Yankees
sign Bill Virdon as the team's manager. Although the former Pirate skipper
will manage for two years in New York, he will never win a game at Yankee
Stadium because the Bronx Bombers will play their home games at Shea due
to renovations at the stadium.

1977
Joining Harry Caray, Jimmy Piersall, and Lorn Brown in the White Sox broadcast
booth, Mary Shane becomes the first female announcer to do play-by-play for
a major league team on a regular basis. Her contract will not be renewed
at the of the season.

The Royals release P Lindy McDaniel, ending his 21-year career. He appeared
in 987 games, 2nd only to Hoyt Wilhelm's 1,070.

1982
While being driven to the airport by his brother Billy, Tony Conigliaro,
four days shy of his 37th birthday, suffers a massive heart attack and
shortly afterward lapses into a coma following a stroke. The former Red
Sox outfielder, who had interviewed for a broadcasting job in Boston with
the team, will remain unresponsive until his death in 1990.

1996
The Mariners sign free agent 1B Paul Sorrento.

2001
The Astros sign old free-agent hurler Ken Bottenfield to a one-year
contract. The 32-year-old right-hander, who started last season with the
Angels after being traded by the Cardinals for Jim Edmonds, will post a
2-5 record for Houston in his last season in the big leagues.

2003
The Cubs sign free agent P Dave Veres to a contract.

The Mariners sign free agent first baseman Glenn Colbrunn to a 2-year
contract.

The Rangers sign free agent P John Thomson to a contract.

2005
Bud Selig okays the trade which will send Shawn Green to the Diamondbacks if
Arizona and the outfielder can come to terms on a contract extension within 72
hours. The commissioner's approval is necessary because the Dodgers will pay
$8 million to help offset Green's current contract if the deal is finalized.

Commissioner Bud Selig approves the potential trade of Diamondback southpaw
Randy Johnson to the Yankees in exchange for Javier Vazquez, Dioner Navarro,
Brad Halsey and $9 million. Arizona will likely include Navarro and much
of the cash to the Dodgers to obtain Shawn Green, another deal approved
today by the commissioner's office.

Hoping to make the team appeal to a broader marketplace, the Angels
announce the franchise will now be known as the Los Angeles Angels of
Anaheim. Officials from Anaheim likely will file a lawsuit to block the
change believing the new name violates the terms of the team's 33-year
lease with the city.

2006
The Astros sign free agent CF Preston Wilson to either a 1 year, $4.5
million or 4 year, $28 million contract. Wilson will get $4 million in
2006 and at the end of the season, the team has an option for 3 years,
$24 million or a $500,000 buyout.

2008
Continuing to deal established players, the A's trade outfielder Nick
Swisher, a fan favorite, to the White Sox for minor leaguer hurlers Gio
Gonzalez and Fautino De Los Santos and fly chaser Ryan Sweeney. Two weeks
ago, the club dealt front-line pitcher Dan Haren to the Diamondbacks for
another threesome of promising prospects.

2013
The Indians formally announce they have signed free-agent Nick Swisher to
a four-year deal, reported to be worth $56 million that also includes an
additional $14 million option for a fifth season. The switch-hitting right
fielder, who spent the past four seasons with Yankees, will fill the void
created in December when Cleveland traded Shin-Soo Choo to Cincinnati as
part of a three-team trade.

