Jan 4

1901
The Baltimore AL club incorporates, with John McGraw as manager and part
owner.

1902
Bill Dinneen, winner of 36 games for the Beaneaters (NL) in the past 2 years,
signs with the rival Boston Somersets (AL), for whom he will win 20 or more
for the next 3 years.

1904
The Highlanders (Yankees) announce plans to play their Sunday home games this
season at Long Island's Ridgewood Park. Sunday games are legal in Detroit,
St. Louis, Chicago, and Cincinnati. In March the National Commission's
chairman, August Herrman, will announce he will not allow the club to play
there due to the close proximity of the ballpark to Brooklyn, the home of
the National League's Superbas (Dodgers).

1915
Hans Lobert, "fastest man" in the NL, is traded by the Phils to the Giants
for righthander Al Demaree, infielder Milt Stock, and C Bert Adams. The
speedster will injure his knee in a preseason game at West Point.

1916
The St. Louis Browns are the first of 2 ML franchises awarded to Federal
League owners. Philip de Catesby Ball, ice-manufacturing tycoon and principal
stockholder of the Feds' St. Louis Terriers, pays a reported $525,000 for
the Browns and replaces manager Branch Rickey with his own Fielder Jones.

1918
The Cubs acquire Braves crossfiring ace Lefty Tyler, sending vets Larry
Doyle, Art Wilson and $15,000 to Boston (NL). Tyler will win 19 games for
the Cubs this year.

1928
The Yankees buy SS Lyn Lary and IF Jimmy Reese from Oakland (Pacific Coast
League) for a reported $150,000.

1932
The Depression deepens, and AL costs are cut by dropping an umpire from
the AL staff of 11.

Casey Stengel returns from exile in the minor leagues to become a coach
for the Dodgers.

1936
As the 2nd part of the December 10th deal for Jimmie Foxx, the Boston Red Sox
get outfielder Doc Cramer (.332) and SS Eric "Boob" McNair from the A's for
Henry Johnson, Al Niemiec, and $75,000. Even with the free spending, and the
presence of 20-game winners Ferrell and Grove, Boston will finish 6th in 1936.

1940
The Reds send sore-armed lefty Lee Grissom to the Yankees for 26-year-old
pitcher Joe Beggs. As noted by historian Lyle Spatz, Beggs had to clear
waivers from all 7 AL teams, who likely were not aware of the impending
swap. This is due to the new rule voted in last month barring the AL pennant
winner (read Yankees) from any trades within the league. Beggs will go 12-3
for the Reds, while Grissom will be sold to the Dodgers on May 15.

1942
With 78 percent of the vote, Rogers Hornsby becomes the 14th player
selected to the Hall of Fame. Frank Chance (58%) and Rube Waddell (54%)
are not elected this year.

1943
Due to World War II, Commissioner Landis mandates clubs to conduct spring
training close to home. With the exception of the Cardinals and the Browns
who may stay in-state and train in Missouri, big league teams are told all
camps must operate north of the Potomac and Ohio rivers and be located east
of the Mississippi River.

A wartime tone for the season is set when Red Ruffing, just months short
of his 38th birthday, and minus 4 toes, is drafted into the Army Air Corp.

1952
Ex-Reds pitcher Lee Grissom is acquitted of manslaughter charges stemming
from a bar room fight on July 30, 1950 when he struck a 27-year-old truck
driver. Grissom was 12-17 for the last-place Reds in 1937.

1957
The Dodgers become the first team to own their own aircraft when the team
buys a 44-passenger two-engine airplane for $775,000.

1969
Attorney Jack Reynolds, administrator of the new umpires union, says an
economic agreement has been worked out between the AL and umpires that will
avert a strike in 1969.

1971
In Philadelphia, the Phillies dedicated their new ballpark, Veterans
Stadium. The team's new home will be harshly criticized for the height of
its upper deck, and for many of its seats being so distant from the field
that it will be difficult to enjoy the game without binoculars.

1976
Executives of the International Amateur Baseball Association (IABA) meet in
Mexico City to end a long-standing feud between delegations, creating in the
process a new organization named the Asociacion Internacional de Beisbol
Amateur (AINBA). With the United States returning to the IABA fold, after
a several-year absence, the first AINBA World Championships are scheduled
for Cartagena, Colombia. Manuel Gonzalez Guerra of Cuba is named the first
AINBA president.

1977
Mary Shane is hired by the Chicago White Sox as the first woman TV
play-by-play announcer.

1993
The White Sox sign free agent OF Ellis Burks.

The Braves sign free agent Bill Pecota to a 2-year contract. Primarily an
infielder, Pecota has played every position including pitcher and DH.

The Pirates sign free agent OF Lonnie Smith.

1995
Five bills aimed at ending the baseball strike are introduced in Congress.

1997
The Rangers sign free agent OF Mike Devereaux.

1998
Blue Jays C Benito Santiago is injured when he loses control of the car he
is driving and crashes into a tree in Ft. Lauderdale. He sustains ligament
damage to his right knee and fractures his pelvis, limiting him to just
15 games at the end of the season. Toronto also loses 1B Carlos Delgado to
a shoulder injury, which he sustains while diving for a ball in a game in
Puerto Rico. He will be lost to the team until late April.

2000
Padres P Carlton Loewer, recently acquired by the San Diego Padres, suffers
a broken leg after falling from a tree while hunting. He'll not pitch in 2000
and will appear in just 2 games in 2001. Loewer is apparently snakebit. While
pitching for the Phillies last year, he missed almost 4 months due to a
stress fracture in his arm. Doctors say that injury left the arm so fragile,
if undetected the bone might have broken more extensively while Loewer was
throwing a pitch.

2001
The Angels sign free agent P Ismael Valdes to a contract.

2002
In spite of the franchise's uncertain future due to possible contraction, 3rd
base coach, Ron Gardenhire, is named to replace Tom Kelly as the Minnesota
manager. Kelly resigned in October. Gardenhire is given a two-year pact to
pilot the team.

The Indians sign 18-year-old Matthew Haynes, a participant in the major
league's first-ever Australian Baseball Academy. The Tribe believes the 6-3,
185-pound right-hander, considered one of the best sixty players from Down
Under, will become a starting pitcher in the major leagues.

Tired of losing, Tony Tavares resigns as the president of Anaheim Sports
Inc and the Angels. The 52-year-old executive, who until today also was
the chairman of the NHL's Mighty Ducks, assumed the baseball post in May
of 1996 after Disney bought the team from Jackie Autry.

The Rockies sign free agent C Tony Eusebio to a 1-year contract.

2005
Five-time batting champ Wade Boggs, who receives 92% of the record number
of 516 votes cast, becomes the 41st player elected to the Hall of Fame in
his first year of eligibility. The Baseball Writers also give the nod to
Ryne Sandberg, the 1984 National League MVP.

The Tigers sign free agent SS Ramon Martinez to a contract.

2006
The Mets trade pitchers Jae Seo and Tim Hamulack to the Dodgers for
pitchers Duaner Sanchez and Steve Schmoll. The Mets get relievers, the
Dodgers get starters.

The Orioles sign free agent 1B Jeff Conine to a contract.

The Pirates sign OF Jeromy Burnitz to a contract.

2007
On his way to begin a goodwill tour of the Dominican Republic with other
big league players, Jake Peavy is arrested outside the terminal building
at the Mobile Regional Airport. Due to a double-parking violation and his
refusal to move his car, the 25-year-old Padres pitcher is charged with
disorderly conduct and is taken to the Mobile County Metro Jail.

2008
Although he hasn't pitched in the big leagues since 2005, Japanese hurler
Hideo Nomo signs a minor league pact with the Royals. The 39-year-old
right-hander, who tossed no-hitters for the Dodgers and the Red Sox, has
been invited to spring training by the club.

The city of Chicago gives approval for the Cubs to add 70 'bullpen box seats'
and to incorporate additional signage at Wrigley Field. The 93-year-old
ballpark, due to its landmark status, needed permission from the Department
of Planning and Development to make the changes.

2010
Rory Markas, recently named by the Angels as the team's lead play-by-play
television announcer, dies unexpectedly at home. The popular 54-year-old
broadcaster, who also spent parts of 11 seasons in the Brewers booth before
starting his eight-year tenure with Los Angeles, was well-known for his
signature line, "Just another Halo victory!".

2011
David Price is selected as this season's recipient of the Warren Spahn
Award, recognition given annually to the best left-handed major league
pitcher by the Oklahoma Sports Museum in Major League Baseball. The Rays'
25-year-old All-Star southpaw compiled a 19-6 record along with an ERA of
2.72 for the AL East champs.

2012
Joe Torre resigns as MLB's executive vice president for baseball operations, a
position he has held since last February, to become part of a group interested
in purchasing the Dodgers from Frank McCourt. The former L.A. skipper,
who managed the team from 2008 to 2010, is partnering with real estate
developer Rick Caruso, who is heading up the ownership bid.

2013
Brett Myers signs a one-year $7 million contract to become part of the
Indians' starting rotation behind Justin Masterson and Ubaldo Jimenez. The
32-year-old right-hander, who has started 249 major league contests during
the first 11 years of his career, appeared in 70 games, all as a reliever,
for the Astros and White Sox last season.

