Jan 6

1914
The National Commission grants some demands of the Players' Fraternity:
players to be notified in writing of their transfer or release and to receive
a copy of their contract; players with 10 years in the ML are eligible to
become free agents; clubs will pay traveling expenses to spring training
and furnish all uniforms; all parks to have a blank green wall behind
the pitcher in CF (to help the batters pick up the ball as it leaves the
pitcher's hand ... this safety measure will become known as the batter's eye).

1916
Leonard King Cole, who gave up Babe Ruth's first hit in 1914, dies in
Bay City, Michigan at age 29. Cole pitched in 10 games with the Yankees
last season.

1917
With Bill Carrigan reaffirming his decision to leave the Red Sox, Jack
Barry is named as player-manager.

1936
Giant President Charles A. Stoneham dies of Bright's disease. He was the
last surviving member of the trio that purchased the team in 1919.

1937
The Giants purchase the services of Tommy Thevenow from the Reds. The
shortstop will never see action for New York as the team trades the 33
year-old to the Bees (Braves) for infielder Billy Urbanski, who also will
never play a game for the club.

1942
Indians right-hander Bob Feller reports to Norfolk to begin his World War
II enlistment in the Navy. Rapid Robert, a 20-game winner for the Tribe for
the last three seasons (76 wins in total), was the first major leaguer to
enlist in the armed forces after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Feller states
"I've always wanted to be on the winning side."

1946
The Red Sox announce that they have signed a working agreement with the
New Orleans Pelicans. The Pelicans are managed by John Peacock, a former
Boston catcher.

1950
Uncomfortable with front office duties, Charlie Grimm leaves the Cubs as
a vice president and signs a 3-year contract to manage the Dallas Eagles
in the Texas League for a record salary of $90,000. As the Chicago skipper,
'Jolly Cholly' had led the team to National League pennants in 1932, 1935 and
1945. Grimm comments, "these hands were never intended to carry a brief case."

1956
A federal court bars former Little League Commissioner Carl Stotz from
forming a rival group. He initiated the suit because he felt the league had
grown too big, and that increasing team rosters to 15 players was preventing
less able players from getting any real playing time.

The Boston Red Sox sell their Louisville farm club to a Cuban cartel led
by Havana businessman Edward F. Wheeler.

1958
Willie Mays' $65,000 contract is a record high for the Giants.

1964
Owner Charlie Finley signs a two-year deal to move the A's from Kansas City
to Louisville. The American League owners will veto the franchise shift,
and the team stays put until after the 1967 season when it is granted
permission to move to Oakland.

The White Sox introduce powder-blue road uniforms.

1967
Former Yankee's manager Johnny Keane, 55, dies of a heart attack at
Houston. It is the 3rd death of a 1966 manager.

1969
Umpires Al Salerno and Bill Valentine file a grievance against the AL and
its president, Joe Cronin. The grievance is filed by the new umpires union
with the National Labor Relations Board.

1977
Angels reserve SS Mike Miley, 23, is killed in an auto crash in Baton Rouge,
LA. Miley had been a star football player at LSU and was chosen twice in
the first round of the June free-agent draft.

1988
Free-agent slugger Jack Clark signs with the New York Yankees, while free
agent Paul Molitor re-signs with the Brewers.

1991
Alan Wiggins, former leadoff hitter for the San Diego Padres and a key
member of their 1984 pennant run, becomes the first baseball player known
to die of AIDS. He was 32.

1992
The Yankees sign free agent OF Danny Tartabull to a 5-year contract.

1994
The Rangers sign free agent pitcher Jay Howell and tomorrow they ink Jack
Armstrong.

The Reds sign free agent P Jeff Brantley.

The Rockies sign free agent SS Walt Weiss.

1997
Dodger owner Peter O'Malley announces plans to sell the team, which has
been controlled by his family since 1950. The club is expected to command
a record price.

Former Atlanta knuckleballer Phil Niekro is elected to the Hall of Fame as
its 227th member by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. The Blaine,
Ohio native receives 80.34% of the vote, and is only the 87th player to be
elected by the BBWAA. Former Dodger hurler Don Sutton falls 9 votes short
of election.

1999
Surgery makes the news as the Mets prize rookie OF Jay Payton undergoes
arthroscopic surgery on his left shoulder. Also, Toronto pitcher Paul
Quantrill has surgery to repair a fractured right thigh and a metal rod is
inserted in his leg. Quantrill, 30, was injured in a snowmobile accident
at his home in Port Hope, Ontario.

Nolan Ryan is the first passenger to board the "Nolan Ryan Express,"
a Southwest Boeing 737. He autographs both sides of the aircraft's nose
on two specially designed decals each featuring a baseball with airplane
wings and a Southwest colored tail. In July, Ryan will again board the
"Nolan Ryan Express" to fly to the National Baseball Hall of Fame induction
ceremonies in New York.

2000
Major league baseball officials order Atlanta Braves P John Rocker to
undergo psychological testing following derogatory remarks he made in an
interview with Sports Illustrated magazine. Baseball commissioner Bud Selig
says he will listen to what the doctors say before deciding what punishment,
if any, will be handed down to the pitcher.

Gene Budig resigns as American League president and is appointed a senior
adviser to baseball commissioner Bud Selig. The American and National
leagues will be disbanded as legal entities later this month, with their
functions consolidated in the commissioner's office.

2003
The Braves sign free agent OF/1B/C Robert Fick to a contract.

The Cardinals sign free agent Ps Joey Hamilton and Al Levine to contracts.

2004
Anaheim Angels reliever Derrick Turnbow becomes the first Major League
Baseball-affiliated player to test positive for illegal use of performance
enhancing drugs since professional players were included in international
competition four years ago.

Paul Molitor and Dennis Eckersley are named to the Hall of Fame by the
baseball writers.

The White Sox sign free agent 2B Roberto Alomar to a contract.

The Royals sign free agent OF Juan Gonzalez to a contract.

The Dodgers sign free agent OF Bubba Trammell to a contract.

The Mets sign free agent P Braden Looper to a 2-year contract.

The Padres get 3B Jeff Cirillo, P Brian Sweeney, and cash from the Mariners
in exchange for C Wiki Gonzalez, IF Dave Hansen, P Kevin Jarvis, and OF
Vince Faison.

The Devil Rays sign free agent P Danys Baez to a 2-year contract.

2005
The White Sox sign free agent C AJ Pierzynski to a contract.

The Rockies sign free agent OF Dustan Mohr and IF Desi Relaford to contracts.

The Tigers acquire C Vance Wilson from the Mets in exchange for Minor league
SS Anderson Hernandez.

The Marlins sign free agent P John Riedling to a contract.

The Cardinals sign free agent 2B Mark Grudzielanek to a contract.

2006
With the largest signing bonus in a minor-league contract for a drafted
player, who is not a free agent, the Diamondbacks come to terms with Justin
Upton, the number one pick in the 2005 major league amateur draft. The
18-year-old shortstop, selected as the best five-tool player in the nation
by Baseball America, will get $6.1 million over the next five years just
for agreeing to play with Arizona.

According to final figures released by the commissioner's office, the
Yankees finished the year with a record payroll of $207.2 million, $90
million more than the Red Sox who spent the second largest amount on playing
personnel. By comparison, the World Champion White Sox only spent $73.2
million with the lowly Devil Rays writing checks for a mere $26.6 million,
not much more than Alex Rodriguez makes as an individual playing third base
for the Bronx Bombers.

Becoming expendable due to the Blue Jays acquiring Troy Glaus from the
Diamondbacks, Corey Koskie is traded to the Brewers for minor league pitching
prospect Brian Wolfe. The 32-year-old third baseman brings experience to
a young Milwaukee infield which includes first baseman Prince Fielder (21)
second baseman Rickie Weeks (23) and shortstop J.J. Hardy (23).

The Red Sox sign Giants free-agent J.T. Snow to a $2 million, one-year
contract. The six-time Gold Glove winner, will share playing time at first
base with Kevin Youkilis.

The commissioner's office informs the press of a letter which was faxed from
the International Baseball Federation informing Major League Baseball of
their intent to withdraw the sanctioning of the World Baseball Classic unless
Cuba is allowed to participate. In mid-December, the Treasury Department
had denied the necessary license for Castro's countrymen to compete on
American soil due to the U.S. law which restricts financial gain of the
communist nation in the United States.

The Blue Jays help their crowded 3B situation by trading 3B Cory Koskie to
the Brewers for minor league P Brian Wolfe.

2009
The Cubs acquire right-handed reliever Luis Vizcaino from the Rockies in
exchange for starting pitcher Jason Marquis and cash. The deal, which frees
up $9 million from the Chicago 2009 payroll, gives the club more flexibility
in signing free-agent outfielder Milton Bradley.

The Indians sign the injury-plagued right-hander Carl Pavano to a one-year,
$1.5 million deal. The 32-year-old free-agent made only 26 starts for the
Yankees after signing a four-year contract worth nearly $40 million prior
to the start of the 2005 season.

2010
In his ninth year on the BBWAA's ballot, Andre Dawson is the only player
to receive 75 percent or more of the writers votes (77.9) needed to be
elected to the Hall of Fame. The former National League Rookie of the Year
(1977 - Montreal) and Most Valuable Player (1987 - Chicago), who spent 21
seasons patroling the outfield for the Expos, Cubs, Red Sox and Marlins,
is one of only three players to exceed 400 homers and 300 stolen bases
during his major league career.

2015
Pedro Martinez, Randy Johnson, Craig Biggio and John Smoltz are elected
into the Hall of Fame, marking the first time since 1955 that four players
have been selected in the same year. Martinez (91.1%) and Johnson (97.3%)
received the mandatory seventy-five percent of the writers' votes to qualify
for induction in their first year on the ballot.

2016
Alex Gordon agrees to a $72-million-four-year deal to continue to patrol
the outfield for the World Champion Royals. The contract is the richest
in franchise history, surpassing the five-year-$55-million identical pacts
signed by Gil Meche and Mike Sweeney.

2018
Trenton Thunder GM/COO Jeff Hurley announces team bat dog Derby, twenty days
shy of his tenth birthday, has died after losing a battle with cancer. In
addition to retrieving bats, the fan favorite brought water to umpires on
the hot days and made regular Meet & Greet appearances with the patrons at
Arm & Hammer Park and at various school and community events during year.

