Jan 7

1915
The Tigers waive Wally Pipp to the New York Yankees. Pipp hit .161 in 12
games, but he'll anchor first base in New York for a decade.

1920
Babe Ruth, reacting to harsh comments made about him after his trade to the
Yankees, tells the Boston Evening Standard "Frazee is not good enough to
own any ball club, especially one in Boston." Recently, the Red Sox owner
called his former player "one of the most selfish and inconsiderate men
ever to put on a baseball uniform".

1924
The Indians trade veteran C Steve O'Neill, 2B Bill Wambsganss, OF Joe
Connolly, and P Danny Boone to Boston for 1B George Burns, 2B Chick Fewster
and C Al Walters. The addition of Burns puts six hitters who batted .300
or better during the 1923 season in the Cleveland lineup.

The Yankees buy the contract of Louisville star, Earle Combs, who hit .380
last year for the Colonels. Colonels owner Bill Kneblekamp gets $50,000, Elmer
Smith and an outfielder, and demands that the Yankees play an exhibition game
in Louisville with a guarantee that Ruth is in the lineup. This reportedly
nets Kneblekamp an additional $5,000.

1933
Baseball commissioner Judge Landis voluntarily cuts his pay by forty
percent. The action is seen as a precursor of all salaries being reduced
during the depression years.

The Washington Senators get veteran C Luke Sewell from Cleveland.

1945
During an argument over a disputed call, Roberto Ortiz viciously attacks
Bernardino Rodriguez knocking the home plate umpire unconscious in the most
violent incident in Cuban baseball history. The Almendares outfielder will
be suspended from the Cuban League due to his violent behavior.

1962
The 61-year-old Three-I League (B) is disbanded by the 6 remaining clubs.

1971
Reds OF Bobby Tolan suffers a ruptured Achilles tendon while playing
basketball on the Reds off-season team and undergoes surgery. He'll return
to action but reinjure the heel May 7 and miss the entire 1971 season.
He'll return to the Reds in 1972, winning both the Comeback Player of the
Year and Hutch awards, hitting .283 and knocking in 82 runs for the National
League champs. The front office disbands the basketball team.

1981
The Reds are the last team to enter the free agent market signing their
first free-agent, OF Larry Biittner. Biittner will prove a bust and be
released after the 1982 season.

1985
The BBWAA elects St. Louis outfielder Lou Brock and Hoyt Wilhelm, who played
with nine different teams, to the Hall of Fame. The Cardinals speedster
broke Ty Cobb's record for stolen bases in 1977 with 893 career steals, and
the veteran knuckleballer, best remembered for his seasons with the Orioles
and the White Sox, at the time of his retiremement held the major league
records (since broken) for most career appearances and most saves. Nellie
Fox is named on 295 of the 395 ballots (74.7%), but the BBWAA and the Hall
of Fame committee decline to round Fox' total to the required 75%.

1991
Pete Rose is released from federal prison in Marion, Illinois, after
serving five months for tax evasion. He will now begin the second part of
his sentence, consisting of 1,000 hours of community service at Cincinnati
inner-city schools.

1992
Rollie Fingers, the first closer in major league history to record 300 career
saves, and Tom Seaver are elected into the Hall of Fame. 'Tom Terrific',
the author of 311 victories, receives the highest percentage (98.8%) in the
voting history of the BBWAA. Pete Rose, ineligible because of his ban from
baseball, receives 41 write-in votes.

1993
The Tigers sign Cecil Fielder to a 5-year $36 million contract, temporarily
making him the highest paid player in the majors.

2000
The Cardinals sign free agent P Andy Benes to a 3-year contract.

The Angels sign free agent 2B Scott Spiezio.

The Dodgers sign free agent outfielder F.P. Santangelo to a 2-year contract.

2002
The Diamondbacks obtain submarine-style relief P Mike Myers from the Rockies
in exchange for OF Jack Cust and catcher J.D. Closser.

2003
Eddie Murray and Gary Carter are elected to the Hall of Fame by the Baseball
Writers.

The Rockies sign free agent 3B Chris Stynes to a contract.

The Royals sign free agent P Albie Lopez to a contract.

2004
The White Sox sign free agent P Cliff Politte to a contract.

The Blue Jays sign free agent SS Chris Gomez and P Terry Adams to contracts.

2005
John Henry, the Red Sox owner, calls reserve first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz
to discuss the possession of the game ball kept by the infielder after the
last out of the World Series was made. Larry Lucchino, the Boston's club
president, has made it clear he wants the team to have ownership of that
historic ball, which now resides in the player's safe deposit box along
with an Olympic ring.

Baseball commissioner Bud Selig announces Major League Baseball and the
Players Association will donate $1 million to help the victims of last month's
Indian Ocean tsunami. According to the United Nations, a total of 229,866
people were lost, including 186,983 known dead and another 42,883 missing.

The Braves sign free agent P Gabe White to a contract.

2006
Bob Watson, receives the Jackie Robinson Lifetime Achievement Award from
the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum. The honor bestowed on the first black
general manager in baseball history during the organization's Legacy Awards
ceremonies in Kansas City.

2007
Randy Johnson agrees to a $26 million, two-year Diamondback deal, leaving
only a physical and MLB approval to finalize his trade from the Yankees
back to the desert. In exchange for the 'Big Unit', the Bronx Bombers will
recieve reliever Luis Vizcaino and minor league prospets right-handers Ross
Ohlendorf (RHP) and Steven Jackson (RHP), and Alberto Gonzalez (INF).

2008
Duaner Sanchez signs a $850,000, one-year deal to stay with the Mets. The
right-handed reliever, injured in a 2006 Atlanta cab accident, was used
as the setup man for closer Billy Wagner prior to separating his throwing
shoulder in the Atlanta accident.

2009
Jason Giambi agrees to a one-year $5.25 million deal to return to the A's,
the franchise where he started his major league career. The 37-year old
free-agent first baseman/DH, who celebrates a birthday tomorrow, joins the
growing list of aging superstars - Frank Thomas, Mike Piazza, and Mike Sweeney
- who have been used to fill the same role with Oakland in recent years.

Selling the last of his remaining shares in the Pirates, Kevin McClatchy
ends his 13-year relationship with the team. After local ownership failed
to materialize in 1996, the former managing general partner made sure
the struggling club would stay in Pittsburgh by finding shareholders and
securing the cash needed to buy the franchise.

The Reds retain the services of Jerry Hairston Jr signing their leadoff hitter
to a $2 million, one-year deal. The 32-year-old versatile veteran played
six positions last season and hit .326 appearing in 80 games for Cincinnati.

Starting pitcher Koji Uehara, 33, agrees in principle to a two-year deal with
the Orioles. The World Baseball Classic standout, formerly with the Tokyo
Yomiuri Giants, has won the Sawamura Award twice as the top pitcher in Japan.

2010
The Royals sign 19-year-old southpaw Noel Arguelles to a $7 million, five-year
contract. The 6-foot-4 Cuban fireballer, who defected from his country at
the 2008 World Junior Championships in Edmonton, got the victory in the
Gold Medal game at the Pan American Junior Championships two seasons ago.

The Mariners and Red Sox finalized their trade that brings Casey Kotchman
to Seattle in exchange for outfielder Bill Hall, a player to be named and
cash. The M's aquisition of the 26-year-old slick-fielding first baseman
signals the departure of free-agent slugger Russell Branyan, who suffered
from a disk issue in his back late in the season last year.

2011
In an eight player trade, the Cubs send outfielder Sam Fuld and minor
leaguers Christopher Archer, Hak-Ju Lee, Brandon Guyer, and Robinson Chirinos
to the Rays to acquire starter Matt Garza. In addition to receiving the
27-year-old right-hander, who compiled a 15-10 record last season that
included a no-hitter, Chicago obtains outfielder Fernando Perez and minor
league southpaw prospect Zachary Rosscup.

