Jan 9

1903
Baltimore's defunct American League franchise is sold to Frank Farrell
and Bill Devery for $18,000 and is moved to New York. The Manhattan team
will be first known as the Highlanders before being officially renamed the
Yankees in 1913.

1908
Frank Navin is named president of the Detroit club. Bennett Field will be
renamed Navin Field.

1915
The National Commission declares University of Michigan senior George Sisler
a free agent after a two-year fight. The Pirates' owner Barney Dreyfuss
claimed rights to Sisler, who had signed a contract as a minor but never
played pro ball. After graduating, Sisler will sign with the St. Louis
Browns, managed by his former college coach, Branch Rickey.

1918
Brooklyn sends OF Casey Stengel and infielder George Cutshaw to Pittsburgh
for P Burleigh Grimes, P Al Mamaux, and infielder Chuck Ward.

1927
In a 3-way deal, P Burleigh Grimes goes from Brooklyn to the Giants, C Butch
Henline goes from Philadelphia to Brooklyn, and Giants 2B Fresco Thompson
and P Jack Scott wind up with the Phils.

1928
The Giants sign Chinese-Hawaiian infielder William "Buck" Lai, to a major
league contract. Lai had been signed by the Pirates in 1918 but never
appeared in a game, and since then has played in the minors and for the
semipro Brooklyn Bushwicks. Alas, he'll be on the Giants for a month but
never appear in a game (as noted by Bob Timmerman).

1952
As the Korean War drags on, the Marines announce their plan to recall Red
Sox outfielder Ted Williams, who missed three years in the majors due to
serving in WW II, back to active duty. He'll be recalled on May 1st. The
bomber pilot, who will fly 39 missions over Korea and survive a crash-landing
after being shot down by the enemy, will play briefly at the start of the
season, but will not return to the Boston lineup on a full-time basis until
late in the 1953 season.

1961
Ending two months of negotiations, the Twins of the American League agree
on a $500,000 indemnity payment to the American Association for entering
the minor league's territory in Minnesota. The settlement paves the way
for the team, formerly known as the Senators, to move from Washington, DC,
and play their home games in the Minnesota/St. Paul area.

Leo Durocher joins the Dodgers as 3B coach.

1974
Picking first in the January amateur draft, the Rangers select SS Roy Smalley
Jr, son of 10-year ML vet SS and nephew of manager Gene Mauch. Smalley,
who dropped out of USC in the fall to make himself eligible, will sign
for $100,000.

1976
Charles Ruppert, Giants VP and son-in-law of Horace Stoneham, announces the
sale of the team to a Toronto group for $13.3 million. The fans' outrage
prompts San Francisco mayor George Moscone to get a preliminary injunction
preventing the move.

1979
In the January draft's secondary phase, the Phils take Mark Davis with
the top pick. Next the Toronto Blue Jays select Nattie George, who will go
unsigned. The Reds will fail to sign the third pick, P Bill Bordley.

1980
Al Kaline and Duke Snider are elected to the Hall of Fame by the BBWAA. Kaline
is the 10th player to be elected in his first year of eligibility, while
Snider is making his 11th appearance on the ballot.

1982
Former Red Sox OF Tony Conigliaro, in Boston to interview for a broadcasting
position, suffers a massive heart attack while being driven to the airport
by his brother, Billy, and lapses into a coma. The 37-year-old Tony C. will
remain hospitalized until March 2nd.

1984
Braves Pascual Perez is arrested for cocaine possession in his native
Dominican Republic. Under local law he will remain in jail until his trial,
forcing him to miss the beginning of the season. Perez maintains that he
was given the packet by a woman he did not know and was unaware of what
it contained.

1989
Reds catcher Johnny Bench and Red Sox outfielder Carl Yastrzemski, foes in
the classic 1975 World Series, are elected to the Hall of Fame in the first
year of eligibility. The perennial All-Star backstop is named on 96.4%
of the BBWAA ballots making Ty Cobb and Hank Aaron the only players to
receive a higher percentage of the writers' votes.

1990
In their first year of eligibility, Jim Palmer (three-time AL Cy Young
Winner) and Joe Morgan (two-time NL MVP) are elected to the Hall of Fame.

A spring training lockout of major league players will begin February 15
unless there is a new agreement according to an announcement made by the
owners. The work stoppage will last 32 days.

1991
Former Padres and Orioles IF Alan Wiggins dies in a Los Angeles hospital
at age 32, reportedly from complications due to AIDS.

1992
Former Yankee Joe Pepitone is charged with assault after a scuffle at a hotel
in Kiamesha Lake, NY. The fight started when Pepitone was called a "has-been."

1995
Mike Schmidt is elected to baseball's Hall of Fame by the Baseball Writers
Association of America.

1996
The Braves trade OF Mike Kelly to the Reds in exchange for minor league P
Chad Fox.

The Cardinals sign free agent IF Mike Gallego.

The Athletics trade P Todd Stottlemyre to the Cardinals in exchange for
pitchers Bret Wagner, Jay Witasick and Carl Dale, and OF Allen Battle.

1997
The Yankees sign free agent OF Mark Whiten.

1998
Red Sox 1B Mo Vaughn is arrested and charged with DWI when his pickup truck
strikes an abandoned car and flips over.

2001
The Expos agree to a one-year contract with RDS and TSN to telecast 55
games (46 on RDS, 12 on TSN and 3 on both) this year. The approximately
$2 million pact with French-language Reseau des Sports ends the year-long
local television blackout which resulted in the departure of Dave van Horne,
a respected play-by-play announcer, and the loss of the team's main sponsor,
Labatt Brewery, which cited the lack of local TV rights as a factor in
ending its 15-year relationship with the club.

Hoping to fill the void creating by Manny Ramirez' departure to Boston, the
Indians sign Juan Gonzalez to a one-year, $10-million deal. After turning
down an $143 million, eight-year extension with the Tigers last year, the
two-time American League MVP leaves Detroit after hitting .289 with only
67 RBIs in a disappointing injuried-plagued season.

The Reds sign free agents C Kelly Stinnett and IF Wilton Guerrero to
contracts.

The White Sox announce that P Bill Simas will miss the entire 2001 season
following ligament replacement surgery on his elbow last month.

2002
Signing a $27 million deal with the Astros, Billy Wagner becomes one of
baseball's highest-paid relievers. The thirty-year-old will get $8 million
in each of the next three seasons with a $9 million club option for 2005
with a $3 million buyout.

Post-season spark plug Craig Counsell (.275, 4, 38) signs a three-year,
$7.25 million deal with the Diamondbacks. Cut by the Dodgers in 2000,
the NLCS MVP played the infield in 141 games for the World Series champion
Diamondbacks last season.

The Rangers sign free agent OF Juan Gonzalez to a 2-year contract.

Rep. John Conyers Jr of Michigan says Bud Selig should resign because
he appeared to violate major league rules in a 1995 loan from a company
controlled by the owner of the Minnesota Twins. Conyers, The House Judiciary
Committee's ranking Democrat says the loan created an "irreparable conflict
of interest" for Selig in his plan to fold two franchises, a proposal that
most likely would include the Twins. Selig rejects the suggestion saying,
"The suggestions made in your letter are wholly unacceptable."

2003
The Indians sign free agent OF Shane Spencer to a contract.

The Marlins sign free agent OF Todd Hollandsworth to a contract.

2004
The Cardinals sign free agent P Julian Tavarez to a two-year contract and
free agent 2B Marlon Anderson to a one-year contract.

The Giants sign free agent P Brett Tomko to a contract.

2005
Carlos Beltran (.267, 38, 104) becomes the tenth $100 million player in
major league history when the 27-year-old native of Puerto Rico agrees to a
seven-year deal for $119 million with the Mets. The five-tool outfielder, who
had his market value increase in the postseason by helping the Astros come
within a win of their first World Series appearance in franchise history,
goes to New York after Houston refuses to include a no-trade clause in
their very attractive monetary offer to keep him on the club.

2006
The Cubs trade former five-tool bluechipper CF Corey Patterson to the
Orioles for minor leaguers SS Nate Spears and P Carlos Perez.

The Astros sign free agent P Trever Miller to a contract.

2008
The Mayo Smith Society names Magglio Ordonez as the winner of its annual King
Tiger Award for his contributions on and off the field. The international
organization for Detroit fans revived the honor in 2004, a tradition which
was started and maintained by various fan clubs from 1961 to 1980.

2012
The Baseball Writers' Association of America elects former Reds infielder
Barry Larkin as its only player to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of
Fame in Cooperstown in July. The Cincinnati shortstop, who received 86.4
percent of the scribes' votes, will be joined by Ron Santo, who was selected
posthumously last month by the Golden Era committee.

