Jan 10

1903
During peace talks in Cincinnati, the American League rejects the National
League's proposal for a consolidated 12-team league. Instead, the two
leagues agree to amicably co-exist as separate entities after the AL
promises to stay out of Pittsburgh. While awarding disputed contracts,
the most hotly contested case belongs to Sam Crawford, Reds outfielder
who batted .333 and led the NL with 23 triples in 1902. The future Hall
of Famer had signed contracts to play the 1903 season with both Detroit
and the Reds. When it is determined that his contract with the Tigers,
preceded his signing with the Reds, Detroit wins his rights. Crawford will
lead the AL in triples this season with 25.

Despite attempts by John Brush and Andrew Freedman to use their political
influence to prevent the AL from finding suitable grounds in New York, Ban
Johnson, aided by baseball writer Joe Vila, finds backers. He also finds a
ballpark site at 165th Street and Broadway. Frank Farrell and Bill Devery
pay $18,000 for the Baltimore franchise and will build a wooden grandstand
seating 15,000 on the highest point of Manhattan. The team, logically,
will be called the Highlanders. Eighteen players are assigned to the New
York team, including players who had moved with the team from Baltimore,
and former NLers.

1907
John McGraw saves the day as he prevents a runaway team of horses from
injuring two west coast women. The fiery Giants manager's heroic deed of
stopping the runaway steeds takes place in the City of Angels, Los Angeles.

1913
Sent down to Louisville by the Cubs, Three-Finger Brown is bought by
Cincinnati. He will be 11-12 with a 2.91 ERA for the 7th-place Reds.

1918
Connie Mack alarms Philadelphia by dealing Stuffy McInnis, the last player
in his $100,000 infield, to Boston for players to be announced. The furor
dies down when Mack announces he has received 3B Larry Gardner, OF Tilly
Walker, and C Hick Cady.

While acknowledging that Ty Cobb, Tris Speaker, and Eddie Collins are all
good ball players, Cap Anson picks his all-time team, leaving them off while
modestly naming himself as the first baseman. In the current issue of TSN,
Anson selects C-Buck Ewing and King Kelly; P-Amos Rusie, John Clarkson,
Jim McCormick; 2B-Fred Pfeffer; 3B-Ned Williamson; SS-Ross Barnes; OF-Bill
Lange, George Gore, Jimmy Ryan, and Hugh Duffy.

1922
The following round-robin deal benefits everyone:  Roger Peckinpaugh, who
played the 1921 season with the New York Yankees, goes from the Boston Red
Sox to the Washington Senators. Peckinpaugh had been with Boston for less
than three weeks. Joe Dugan goes from the Philadelphia Athletics to the
Boston Red Sox; and OF Bing Miller and P Jose Acosta, from Washington to
Philadelphia. Acosta will be sold to Chicago on February 4th. After playing
only 84 games for the Red Sox, Joe Dugan will join the New York Yankees in
a mid-season trade

1928
After unsuccessful attempts to engineer a trade with the Chicago Cubs, the
Cincinnati Reds and the Brooklyn Dodgers, Giants owner Charles Stoneham
announces "that in the best interests of the team" he has traded Rogers
Hornsby to the Boston Braves for Shanty Hogan, a promising young catcher,
and journeyman OF Jimmy Welsh. It's the Rajah's third team in three
years. Stoneham was not a fan of Hornsby's abrasive style as fill-in manager
for McGraw this past season, and thought that Hornsby welched on gambling
debts. Hornsby was sued by a gambler, but in a civil case decided the previous
December 21st in Missouri, where gambling is illegal, was found not liable.

1934
William Walker is elected president of the Cubs, filling the vacancy created
by William Veeck's death during the WS.

1938
Before a gathering of writers, players and executives in Baltimore, Jimmie
Foxx, representing the American League, National Leaguer Chuck Klein, and
Charlie Keller, representing the International League, participate in an
extended batting practice with new balls the major leagues plan to use in the
upcoming season. Dick Thompson of The Sporting News reports, "... regarding
the dead ball, as adopted by the National League, and the lively ball, as
retained by the American and International Leagues ... the NL ball has a
distinctly 'dead' sound coming off the bat, compared to the livelier AL ball."

1945
The BBWWA again does not elect a new member for the Hall of Fame this
year. Frank Chance, Rube Waddell and Ed Walsh, all of whom will be inducted
by the Veterans' committee in 1946, get the most votes but fall short of
the necessary three-fourths of the ballots to be selected.

1950
The Indians dismiss coach George C. "Good Kid" Susce when his son, George D.,
signs with the Red Sox. George Jr will make his major league debut against
the Yankees in 1955.

1957
Commissioner Ford Frick rules that singer Bing Crosby can keep his "token"
stock in the Detroit Tigers, even though he owns part of the Pittsburgh
Pirates.

1958
In Mexico's PCL Mazatlan whips visiting Navojoa-Guaymas, 26-10. Deer 1B
Angel Castro has three homers, a single, two walks and 11 RBIs. Castro hit
two of his homeruns during an 11-run, first inning; his second home run
was a grand slam.

1963
Chicago Cubs owner Philip K. Wrigley creates the position of
athletic director, and hires ex-Air Force Academy director Robert V.
Whitlow. Whitlow's lack of experience leads to him being ignored by general
manager John Holland and manager Bob Kennedy, and he resigns in January
of 1965.

1973
In the January amateur draft, the Phillies pick Dick Ruthven, who will jump
right to the majors, the Rangers take C Jim Sundberg, and the Cubs pick RHP
Donnie Moore. The Reds pick Southern Miss punter Ray Guy in the third round,
but he chooses the NFL instead.

1983
New York Supreme Court Justice Richard Lane issues a preliminary injunction
barring the Yankees from playing their season-opening series against the
Tigers in Denver. The club had sought to move the games because it feared
off-season renovations to Yankee Stadium would not be completed for the
April 11th-13th series.

1984
The Baseball Writers' Association of America elects Luis Aparicio, Harmon
Killebrew, and Don Drysdale to the Hall of Fame.

1991
In one of the worst trades ever made in baseball history, the Orioles send
pitchers Curt Schilling and Pete Harnish and outfielder Steve Finley to
the Astros for first baseman Glen Davis. Davis, who averaged 27 home runs
in six seasons playing in the Astrodome with Houston, will hit only 24
dingers in three injury-filled years as Schilling becomes one of the most
dominant hurlers in the game and Harnish and Finley develop into solid
major league players.

1992
The Yankees trade 2B Steve Sax to the White Sox in exchange for P Melido
Perez, Domingo Jean and Bob Wickman.

1994
Former NL President Chub Feeney dies of a heart attack at age 72.

The Padres sign free agent IF/OF Bip Roberts.

1995
Arbitrator Thomas Roberts awards 11 players a total of almost $10 million
as a result of collusion charges brought against the owners.

1996
The Red Sox trade P Rheal Cormier, 1B Ryan McGuire and minor league P Shayne
Bennett to the Expos in exchange for SS Wil Cordero and P Bryan Eversgerd.

2000
The Mariners sign free agent P Aaron Sele to a two-year $15 million
contract after Orioles owner Peter Angelos nixes a negotiated four-year
$29 million (one report says three year 21-million dollars) because of
questions concerning Sele's physical condition. The Rangers had offered
Sele a four-year, $28 million deal that was never consummated. "Sele fell
out of the sky," marvels M's GM Pat Gillick. Sele will win 17 during the
2000 season to become one of just seven pitchers to win 15 or more games in
each of the past three seasons (Pedro Martinez, Greg Maddux, Randy Johnson,
David Wells, Dave Burba, and Charles Nagy).

2001
In an effort to authenticate autographed and game-used merchandise sold
by its licensees, Major League Baseball has hired Arthur Andersen, an
accounting company to assure the authenticity of approximately 40,000 items
this season. The memorabilia will have a tamper proof hologram and an ID
number with a company official observing the removal of the item being
physically taken from the player or event.

As part of its 100th Anniversary festivities, the Indians present three-time
All-Star Jim Thome with his very own bobblehead doll. The first baseman is
one of seven current Cleveland players which will be part of the bobblehead
doll promotional giveaways to celebrate the club's centennial this season.

The Phillies sign free agent OF Brian Hunter to a contract, while the Cubs
ink free agent INF Ron Coomer to a contract. Coomer will go on the DL April
4 with a knee injury, opening the door for Julio Zuleta to take Coomer's
place as the righthanded half of a first base platoon with lefthanded hitter
Matt Stairs. Zuleta will leave the major leagues after the 2001 season.

2002
Although he missed most the second half of the season playing for the
White Sox due to undergoing back surgery, the Yankees sign David Wells to
a two-year, $7-million contract to re-join the team. After posting a 34-14
record including a perfect game from 1997-98, 'Boomer' was traded to the
Blue Jays, where he had his only 20-win season, in a deal for Roger Clemens.

Representative John Conyers Jr, the House Judiciary Committee's ranking
Democrat, said he would back off asking Bud Selig to resign if the
commissioner dropped his threat to eliminate teams this season. Selig in
a two-page letter to the Michigan lawmaker was unequivocal in his response
stating the suggestions made were wholly unacceptable.

The Rockies sign free agent P Rick White to a 1-year contract.

Bud Selig asks the players to accept a luxury tax that would slow the
increase of salaries. He also proposes that teams vastly increase the amount
of local revenue they share.

2003
The Royals sign free agent IF Desi Relaford to a two-year contract.

The Marlins sign free agent OF Gerald Williams to a contract.

The Brewers sign free agent P Dave Mlicki to a contract.

2004
The Orioles sign free agent 1B Rafael Palmeiro to a contract.

2005
The Cubs obtain P Stephen Randolph from the Diamondbacks in exchange for
a player to be named.

The Mets sign free agent IF Miguel Cairo to a contract.

The Blue Jays sign free agent P Billy Koch to a contract.

2006
Bruce Sutter becomes just the fourth relief pitcher to get into the
Hall of Fame in his 13th year on the ballott, and the first hurler ever
elected without a career major league start. The split fingered fastball,
which will eventually lead to career ending injuries, helped to establish
the right-hander as one of the game's dominant closers. Outfielder Jim
Rice finishes second in the balloting, falling 53 votes shy, one ahead of
reliever Goose Gossage.

The Padres sign free agent P Shawn Estes to a contract.

The Devil Rays sign free agent INF Ty Wigginton to a contract.

The Mets ink their top pick from last June's draft signing Mike Pelfrey
for $5.25 million.

2008
The Astros and Darin Erstad (.248, 4, 32) agree to a $1 million, one-year
deal which also includes incentives. The 33-year-old free agent outfielder,
a lifetime .284 hitter, saw limited duty with the White Sox last season
after spending 11 superb seasons with the Angels

