Jan 11

1909
The National Commission approves owner Charles Murphy's payment of a $10,000
bonus to his Cubs for their 1908 World Series triumph.

1913
With the Phils franchise in disarray following the expulsion of President
Horace Fogel, William H. Locke and his cousin William F. Baker buy the club.

1914
Former 19th century major leaguer Walt Goldsby commits suicide by a
self-inflicted gunshot wound.

1915
Colonel Jacob Ruppert and Colonel Tillinghast L. Huston buy the New York
Yankees from Frank Farrell and Bill Devery for $460,000. Ruppert, who owns
a brewery, is thinking of renaming the team the Knickerbockers to promote
his product, but is dissuaded by newspaper men.

1926
The Pacific Coast League shifts 2 franchises. It moves the Vernon, CA team
to San Francisco where it becomes the Mission Club. The Salt Lake City,
UT franchise is transferred to Hollywood.

1932
Bill Terry sends his contract back to the New York Giants, telling writers
he is "thoroughly disgusted." Terry, who just missed the NL batting title,
was offered a $9,000 cut from his 1931 contract of $22,500. The Giants
counter by saying that the combined salaries of Hafey and Bottomley, the two
St. Louis Cardinals who finished ahead of Terry in hitting, is only $24,000.

1934
The Cardinals send C Bob O'Farrell and P Syl Johnson to the Phillies
for P Glenn Spencer and cash. The Phils immediately name O'Farrell as
player-manager.

1949
Although the city doesn't have a major league franchise, the Story Quarry is
selected as the site for the new Milwaukee County Stadium. Construction will
begin in the Fall of next year in an attempt to attract a big league team
which will happen in 1954 when the Braves leave Boston to play in Brew Town.

1955
Before an exhibition game in San Juan, Puerto Rico, Willie Mays and teammate
Ruben Gomez get into a brawl. It starts when Gomez slips into the batting
cage ahead of Mays, and batting practice pitcher Milt Ralat then refuses to
throw. The sulking Gomez sits down on the plate, and Mays then steps to the
side and directs the pitcher to throw to him there. Ralat then throws an
insulting slow pitch which Willie barehands and fires back. He and Ralat
exchange words and when Mays walks towards the mound, Gomez, brandishing
a bat, attempts to interfere. Mays drops him with a right. The two later
apologize to each other.

The Cards trade P Ben Wade to Pittsburgh for P Paul LaPalme.

1958
Representatives Kenneth Keating and Patrick Hillings drop their plan to
bring baseball under the nation's antitrust laws.

1960
The Phillies send fan-favorite Richie Ashburn, the National League's top
hitter in 1958 (but batted .259 in 1959), to the Cubs in exchange for
infielders Alvin Dark and Chicago-native Jim Woods and right hander John
Buzhardt. 'Whitey', a future Hall of Famer, will play center field and hit
.291 batting leadoff for Chicago this season.

1968
Ewing Kauffman becomes the owner of the new American League franchise in
Kansas City to be eventually known as the Royals. Encouraged by his wife
Muriel, the pharmaceutical magnate becomes an instrumental force in bringing
a quality major league baseball experience to the Heart of America, after
Charlie Finley's stormy departure to Oakland with the unpopular A's team.

The Cardinals trade OF Alex Johnson to the Reds for OF Dick Simpson.

1969
The Cubs obtain veteran reliever Ted Abernathy from the Reds for 3 minor
leaguers, C Bill Plummer, OF Clarence Jones, and P Ken Myette.

1971
At the age of twenty-seven, Tiger pitcher John Hiller suffers a heart
attack. Hiller will have seven feet of intestine removed to relieve a
cholesterol problem. After missing the entire season this year, the Canadian
native will make a great comeback with the team in 1972 establishing a new
American League record with 38 saves.

1973
After the American League approves the new rule 8-4 and the National League
vetoes the idea, all 24 owners approve the junior circuit's three-year
experiment to use a designated hitter. Although the DH was his idea, A's
owner Charley Finely votes against the concept because his brainchild of
implementing a designated runner is nixed.

Cincinnati attorney Louis Nippert assumes control of the Cincinnati Reds when
he purchases 51% of the stock from the Gamble and Williams families. Nippert
was part of the group that bought the Reds in 1966.

1977
In a five-player trade which benefits both teams, the Dodgers trade first
baseman/outfielder Bill Buckner and shortstop Ivan DeJesus to the Cubs for
Rick Monday. Monday and DeJesus will perform well for 5+ years in L.A.,
and Buckner, before he becomes infamous in Boston, will bat an even .300
during eight seasons in the Windy City.

1983
Taking over for Clyde King (who moves to the front office), Billy Martin
will make his third appearance in 8 years as the manager of the Yankees. The
third time will prove not to be a charm when the fiery skipper is moved to
the front office and is replaced in the dugout by Yogi Berra prior to the
start of the 1985 season.

One of the few good players to be drafted and also sign in the January free
agent draft is Ellis Burks, picked in the first round by the Red Sox. The
Yankees pick and sign a Canseco - Ozzie - with their fourth pick.

1993
The Rev. Jesse Jackson tells baseball owners that unless a plan to hire
more minorities for front-office jobs is in place by April 5, he will call
for selective boycotts.

1997
The Red Sox sign free agent P Steve Avery.

1999
The Brewers sign free agent OF Rich Becker to a contract.

2000
Former Red Sox and White Sox catcher Carlton Fisk and the 'Big Red Machine's
first baseman Tony Perez are elected to the Hall of Fame. 'Pudge' is selected
in his second year of eligibility and the Reds infielder from Ciego De Avila,
Cuba makes it on his ninth try.

2001
David Cone agrees to a one-year contract with the Red Sox. The former Cy
Young Award winner could make between $4 million and $5 million with Boston,
compared to a $500,000 guaranteed-offer made by the Yankees, if he makes
the roster and pitches regularly during the season.

2002
After a one-year experiment, the Orioles plan to return Camden Yards to
its original dimensions by moving in the fences. The team, which hit only
58 homers at home, 44 less than in the previous season, said the fences
are returning to their initial distances because the new configuration
"adversely affected the viewing angle of the batter's eye."

The Rockies sign free agent P Todd Jones to a 1-year contract.

The Mariners sign free agent P Shigetoshi Hasegawa to a 1-year contract.

2003
The Marlins obtain P Mark Redman from the Tigers in a deal involving 4
other pitchers. The Marlins also get Jason Fuell while Detroit picks up
Gary Knotts, Nate Robertson, and Rob Henkel.

2004
The owners of rooftop seats and beer gardens overlooking Wrigley Field
"have agreed to pay the Chicago Cubs a $15 to $25 fee for each rooftop
ticket sold" under a tentative deal that could earn the team $2M a season,
according to Toomey & Spielman of the Chicago Sun Times who noted the deal
has been agreed to by 11 of 13 rooftop owners. The 20-year deal "calls for
the Cubs to drop a copyright infringement lawsuit against the rooftop owners"
that was to go to trial on February 23. The team also agreed "to compensate
rooftops whose sightlines would be blocked if bleachers are expanded in
the next eight years."

2005
The Yankees obtain P Randy Johnson from the Diamondbacks. Arizona receives
pitchers Javier Vazquez and Bret Halsey, C Dioner Navarro, and cash from
NY. Arizona then sends Navarro and hurlers William Juarez, Danny Muegge and
Beltran Perez to the Dodgers for 32-year-old outfielder Shawn Green (.266,
28, 86) and cash. In an effort to rebound from last's season's 51-111 record,
Arizona has also signed free-agent third baseman Troy Glaus and starting
pitcher Russ Ortiz during the off season.

The Mets sign free agent OF Carlos Beltran to a 7-year contract.

The Phillies sign free agent P Terry Adams to a contract.

The Toronto Blue Jays sign free agent P Scott Schoeneweis to a 2-year
contract.

The Padres sign free agent P Chris Hammond to a contract.

The Dodgers sign free agent P Derek Lowe to a 4-year contract.

2006
The Devil Rays make their first agreement with a Japanese player as
31-year-old right-handed relief pitcher Shinji Mori signs a $1.4 million,
two-year contract to play in Tampa Bay. In 431 games, the former Seibu
Lion reliever was 44-44 with 50 saves and a 3.39 ERA playing in Japan's
Pacific League.

The Red Sox sign free agent reliever Julian Tavarez to a two-year $6.7
million contract.

2008
Jacobs Field, the home of the Indians since 1994, will now be called
Progressive Field. The Tribe signs a 16-year naming rights agreement with
the Cleveland based insurance company calling for an average annual payment
of $3.6 million until the year 2023.

The Reds hire Walt Jocketty as a special adviser to chief executive Bob
Castellini. The former Cardinals GM, who spent 13 seasons in the St. Louis
front office, left after the Redbirds slumped to a third place finish
(78-84) one year removed from a World Championship.

2010
Mark McGwire, who broke Roger Maris' single-season homerun record in 1998,
apologizes for his decade-long on-and-off use of performance-enhancing
substances that started prior to the 1990 season. The former St. Louis
and Oakland slugger, recently hired to be the Cardinals hitting coach,
had been in a self-imposed exile since repeatedly telling a congressional
committee in 2005, "I'm not here to talk about the past," a remark which
seriously hurt his popularity and irrevocablly damaged his reputation.

Former pitching great Greg Maddux, who started his major league career
with the Cubs in 1986, is returning to be with the team as an assistant to
general manager Jim Hendry. The 355-game winner's, a sure first-ballot Hall
of Famer, duties will include assisting the major league and minor league
coaching staffs at spring training, evaluating talent, and developing minor
league players.

With aspirations of being the Cubs' manager some day, Ryne Sandberg agrees
to replace Bobby Dickerson, who left for a position with Baltimore, as
the skipper for the Triple-A Iowa Cubs. The 50-year-old Hall of Famer has
managed in the Chicago farm system for the past three seasons, two with
the Single-A Peoria Chiefs and one year with the Double-A Tennessee Smokies.

In a very significant deal for the struggling organization, according to the
Reds general manager Walt Jocketty, the team signs starting pitcher Aroldis
Chapman to a $30.25 million, six-year contract. Cincinnati was the winning
bidder for the services of the 21-year-old southpaw fireballer from Cuba,
who defected from his country last July while playing in the World Port
Tournament in Rotterdam, Netherlands.

2013
Wearing a Cubs jersey and backward blue baseball cap, Clark, the Cubs' new
mascot makes his debut at Chicago's Advocate Illinois Masonic's Pediatric
Developmental Center. Clark the Cub, who is named after the street located
behind Wrigley Field's home plate, is being touted as the great-grandson
of franchise's first mascot, Joa, a live bear used as a good luck charm
in 1916, nine years after the franchise officially adopted Cubs as the
team's name.

