Jan 13

1922
Buck Weaver applies unsuccessfully for reinstatement. The Black Sox infielder
remains banned for life due to allegations of throwing the 1919 World Series
to the Reds along with seven other Chicago White Sox players.

1939
Yankee owner Colonel Jacob Ruppert dies of phlebitis at age 71. On the 17th,
Ed Barrow is elected president to succeed Colonel Ruppert.

1954
The Pirates trade workhorse Murry Dickson to the Phils for P Andy Hansen
and IF Jack "Lucky" Lohrke. Dickson led the league in losses the past 2
years and will lead it again in 1954.

1958
New York Senator Kenneth Keating proposes a ban on all major league telecasts
within a one hundred mile radius of minor league territories.

Spokane, Salt Lake City, and Phoenix join the PCL.

1959
State Senator Joseph W. Cowgill introduces a bill to build a stadium in
Camden to induce the nearby Phillies to move to New Jersey. This effort is
based on statements by Phillies owner Bob Carpenter that he is thinking of
moving the team unless he gets a new stadium.

John Quinn resigns as GM of the Braves and immediately accepts a similar
post with the Phillies.

1972
Former umpire, now housewife Bernice Gera wins her suit against baseball,
initiated on March 15, 1971. The NY Court of Appeals rules in her
favor. Mrs. Gera is slated to umpire in the New York-Pennsylvania League
starting in June.

1978
At the age of 90, Hall of fame manager Joe McCarthy dies. The former Cubs
(1926-30), Yankees (1931-46), and Red Sox (1948-50) skipper compiled a
1460-867 (.627) record winning nine pennants and seven World Championships
during his 24-year tenure in the dugout.

1982
Both Henry Aaron (Braves, Brewers) and Frank Robinson (Reds, Orioles,
Dodgers, Angels, Indians) are elected to the Hall of Fame in their first
year of eligibility (12th and 13th players to do so). 'Hammering Hank' falls
just nine votes short of being the first player to be elected unanimously
by the BBWAA, and his 97.8 election percentage is 2nd only to Ty Cobb's
98.2 percent in the inaugural 1936 election.

1983
The Red Sox trade veteran P Mike Torrez to the Mets for minor leaguer 3B
Mike Davis.

1988
After hitting a meager .211 last season and not being offered a new contract
by San Diego, former National League Most Valuable Player Steve Garvey
decides to retire. The perennial All-Star first baseman for the Dodgers
and Padres ends his 19-year career with a lifetime .294 batting average

1991
While playing for the Oakland Raiders of the NFL, Bo Jackson suffers a
career-threatening injury in an AFC playoff game against the Cincinnati
Bengals. Originally diagnosed as a pulled thigh muscle, the Kansas City
Royals learn of the severity of the injury just as spring begins. They will
release Jackson shortly after, fearing that his baseball career is over,
and he'll sign with the White Sox.

1993
The Giants sign free agents Todd Benzinger and Mark Carreon.

The Rangers sign free agent P Craig Lefferts.

1994
The Angels sign free agent P Craig Lefferts while the Twins sign free agent
P Jim Deshaies.

1995
Use of replacement players for spring training and regular season games
is okayed by baseball's executive council. Acting commissioner Bud Selig
announces, "We are committed to playing the 1995 season and will do so with
the best players willing to play."

1996
The Marlins sign Cuban P Livan Hernandez to a 4-year $4.5 million contract,
which includes a record $2.5 million bonus.

2000
The Devil Rays sign free agent P Steve Trachsel to a one-year
contract. Trachsel (8-18) led the Cubs in innings pitched (206) and was
expected to ink a multi-year contract.

2001
Major league baseball announces that the Texas Rangers and Toronto Blue
Jays will open the 2001 season in Puerto Rico, marking the 3rd straight
year the season will begin outside the US and Canada.

2003
The Braves sign free agent P Mike Venafro to a contract.

2004
The Padres sign free agent OF Jay Payton to a 2-year contract.

The Rangers sign free agent P Kenny Rogers to a 2-year contract.

After going 21-10 for the New York Yankees in 2003, Andy Pettitte is announced
as the winner of the Warren Spahn Award, presented annually to the top
left-handed pitcher in the majors. Pettitte will move to the Houston Astros
as a free agent and win just 6 games in 2004, but notch his 10th straight
winning season out of 10. Babe Ruth is the only other pitcher who has
pitched at least 10 seasons without incurring a losing record in any of them.

2005
The owners unanimously approve the $223 million sale of the Brewers to Mark
Attanasio, a Los Angeles investor. The purchase of the team, formerly owned
by the family of commissioner Bud Selig, insures Milwaukee will keep their
team due to a 30-year lease to play in newly built Miller Park.

Marvin Miller, 88, the former executive-director of the Major League Players
Association who helped to forever change the nature of the player-owner
relationship, receives the Fuchs Award from the Boston Chapter of the
Baseball Writers Association of America. The honor, named for Judge Emil
E. Fuchs who owned the hometown Braves from 1929 through 1935, is given for
"long and meritorious service to baseball."

Under the watchful eye of national lawmakers, major league baseball and
the players association agree in principle on a stricter steroid-testing
policy. The new program will randomly test players year-round having
first-time offenders suspended for 10 days and a fourth violation resulting
in a one year ban for the offending player. The agreement is effective from
2005 through 2008.

Hoping to sway the veterans' committee, North Dakota's House of
Representatives approves a resolution proclaiming native son Roger Maris
(Indians, A's, Yankees, Cardinals) should be elected to the Hall of
Fame. The lawmakers' action, which was sponsored by Rep. Andy Maragos,
orders the Secretary of State to send a copy of the resolution to the 85
members of the baseball veterans' committee, which includes the 60 living
members enshrined in Cooperstown.

The Dodgers sign free agent C Paul Bako to a contract.

The Devil Rays sign free agent OF Danny Bautista to a contract.

2006
Johnny Estrada, who filed for arbitration after being traded from the Braves
for relievers Lance Cormier and Oscar Villarreal, agrees to a $2 million,
one-year contract to catch for the Diamondbacks. The former All-Star backstop
had limited playing time after a mid-season home plate collision with Angels'
center fielder Darin Erstad.

The much-anticipated trial to determine if Angels owner Arte Moreno violated
a 10-year-old contract with Anaheim, in which the city claims to have lost
$100 million in tourism and merchandising revenue, when the franchise's
name was changed from the Anaheim Angels to the Los Angeles Angels of
Anaheim, begins. Some of the people in the crowded courtroom were wearing
Angel-colored red T-shirts imprinted with the words, "We Are Not L.A."

2009
Appearing on Larry King Live, President George W. Bush makes it very clear
he doesn't have any interest in becoming baseball's commissioner when Bud
Selig leaves the post. The former owner of the Rangers, who leaves office
in seven days, tells the CNN talk show host he isn't looking to get back
into the game in any capacity.

After the all-time-career saves leader passes a physical, the Brewers
announce their $6 million, one-year deal with free-agent reliever Trevor
Hoffman. The 41-year-old right hander, a fixture in the Padres bullpen
since 1993, has compiled 554 saves in 930 relief appearances during his
16-year tenure in the major leagues.

2010
The Royals hire former Milwaukee manager Ned Yost to be a special advisor for
the team. The 54-year-old is hired by Kansas City GM Dayton Moore, who met the
former major league catcher when they both worked in the Braves organization.

Ryan Church and the Pirates come to terms on a $1.5 million, one-year
deal. The 31-year-old left-handed hitting outfielder, who batted .273 with
the Mets and Braves in an injury plagued season last year, is expected to
be the Bucs' fourth outfielder, backing up Brandon Moss, Andrew McCutchen,
and Lastings Milledge.

