Jan 16

1905
It seems simple enough on paper. The Red Sox buy OF George Stone from
Washington. The Browns reclaim Frank Huelsman from the Senators, where he
had been on loan, and send him along with OF Jesse Burkett to Boston for
Stone. Boston then sends Huelsman back to Washington in payment for George
Stone. This is Huelsman's 4th trade in 8 months. He played for five teams
(Chicago twice) last year.

1917
The Cubs send Jimmy Lavender and $5,000 to the Phillies for Al
Demaree. They'll keep Al until the end of July before passing him to
the Giants.

1952
The U.S. Standardization Board clears the way for Stan Musial to get a
salary increase to $85,000. Prior to this relaxation of the rules, there
was a wage freeze in effect due to the Korean War. Under the new rules, a
team is free to raise individual salaries, as long as they do not exceed a
complicated formula, based on total team salaries for any one year, from
1946-50, plus 10 percent.

1960
In a benefit basketball game, the Steelers beat the Pirates in sudden death
overtime, 22-20. Shortstop Dick Groat, a Duke University hoop standout,
scores 14 points for the Bucs. The Steelers are helped by a ringer, former
Pitt hoop All-American Don Hennon.

The Cubs trade Alvin Dark, along with John Buzhardt and Jim Woods, to the
Phillies in exchange for Richie Ashburn. After a slow start in Philadelphia,
the 'Swamp Fox' is dealt to the Braves where the veteran infielder will
hit .298 for Boston before retiring as a player at the end of the season
to become the skipper for San Francisco.

1964
With a 9-1 vote, the American League owners shoot down Charles Finley's
proposal to move the A's to Louisville. The maverick owner is given an
ultimatum to sign a lease in Kansas City or lose his franchise.

1970
Curt Flood, Cardinals Gold Glove outfielder, files a civil lawsuit
challenging ML baseball's reserve clause, a suit that will have historic
implications. Flood refused to report to the Phillies after he was traded
by the Cardinals 3 months ago, contending the baseball rule violates federal
antitrust laws.

1974
The BBWAA elects former Yankee teammates Mickey Mantle and Whitey Ford to the
Hall of Fame. Mantle becomes only the 7th player to make it in his first try.

1986
The Twins trade 2B Tim Teufel and minor leaguer Pat Crosby to the Mets for
minor leaguers Billy Beane, Bill Latham, and Joe Klink. They also trade C
Dave Engle to the Tigers for IF Chris Pittaro and minor leaguer Alex Sanchez.

1996
The Giants signed much acclaimed amateur free-agent Osvaldo Fernandez. The
Cuban National squad's all-star hurler, who defected when his club played
Team USA in Tennessee, will post a disappointing 10-17 record during his
two-year stay by the Bay.

At a meeting in LA, interleague play is approved for the 1997 season by
major league baseball's executive council.

2001
In their first year of eligibility, Dave Winfield and Kirby Puckett are
elected to the Hall of Fame. The former Twins are the fourth pair of
teammates selected by BBWAA in the same year. After much speculation,
Winfield announces he'll go in as a Padre.

Free agent Jose Canseco, 36, agrees to terms with the Angels. The
incentive-laden contract ranging from $200,000 to as much as $5 million
will be based on plate appearances as a designated hitter.

2002
Free agent Pedro Astacio (8-14, 5.09) agrees to a one-year, $5 million
incentives-laden deal with the Mets. After being traded to the Astros by the
Rockies last season, the 32-year-old right-hander developed shoulder problems.

The Brewers sign free agent 2B Eric Young to a 2-year contract.

2003
The owners establish the minimum age of 14 for bat boys. The change from not
having any age requirement was prompted by a near collision at home plate
during game 5 of the World Series involving 4-year-old bat boy Darren Baker,
the son of Giant skipper, Dusty Baker.

Gary Carter will become the first, and perhaps the only player, wearing an
Expos hat on his Hall of Fame plaque. Although the former catcher expressed he
wanted to be immortalized as a Mets player, the team which presently employs
him and the franchise he helped to win the 1986 World Series championship,
Cooperstown decided the 'Kid' should enter the Hall with a Montreal logo.

Trying to restore a competitive edge to the All-Star game, the owners
unanimously approved the winning league of the Midsummer Classic will have
home-field advantage during the World Series. Approval is needed by the
players to change the current rotation between the two leagues which was
put in place since its inception of the World Series in 1903.

The Orioles sign free agent P Kerry Ligtenberg to a contract.

The Phillies sign free agent IF Tyler Houston to a contract.

The Cubs sign free agent P Mark Guthrie to a contract.

The Mariners sign free agent OF/1B John Mabry to a contract.

Alex Rodriguez is announced as the winner of the 1st annual Ted Williams
Award for being the best hitter in the majors in 2002.

The Mariners announce they will open the 2003 season with a 2-game series
against the A's in Tokyo, Japan.

2004
You can always use a Palmeiro. The Astros sign free agent OF Orlando Palmeiro
to a contract.

2006
Signing a record-setting one-year deal with the Marlins, Dontrelle Willis
(22-10, 2.63) avoids arbitration by agreeing to a $4.35 million one-year deal
which could be worth $4.55 million if certain performance-based incentives
are reached. The All-Star southpaw's deal surpasses Roy Halladay and Andy
Pettitte, who both got $3.8 million contracts, for the highest amount ever
given to a starting pitcher in their first year of arbitration eligibility

2007
The Florida Marlins, the team with the lowest payroll in the majors spending
only $15 million last season, agrees to a one-year deal with southpaw
Dontrelle Willis (12-12, 3.87) for $6.45 million. The Florida ace gets a
hefty raise from the $4.35 million he received last season.

2008
A former 20-game winner with the team, Jon Lieber (3-6, 4.73), signs a $3.5
million, one-year deal with the Cubs. The right-handed veteran, who played
with the Phillies for the past three years, missed most of last season due
to surgery needed to repair a ruptured tendon in his foot.

Avoiding salary arbitration, the Tigers sign Nate Roberts (9-13, 4.76) to a
$21.25 million, three-year deal. The 30-year-old southpaw, who would have
been eligible to become a free agent after the 2009 season, has made 30+
starts during each of his previous four seasons with Detroit.

2009
The Red Sox sign another infielder to a long-term contract when Kevin
Youkilis agrees to a four-year deal reportedly worth $41 million. The
29-year-old Gold Glove first baseman will join Dustin Pedroia, inked to
a six-year contract extension in December, on the right side of Boston's
infield for the foreseeable future.

The Brewers sign Trevor Hoffman as a free agent.

2010
Scott Hairston returns to the Padres, the team that traded him last July,
in a four-player deal with the A's. The Friars send third baseman Kevin
Kouzmanoff and prospect Eric Sogard to Oakland in exchange for their former
outfielder and Aaron Cunningham.

2011
Joey Votto and the Reds agree to a three-year contract extension worth $38
million. The 27-year-old first baseman was voted the National League's Most
Valuable Player last season.

2013
The Mariners acquire Michael Morse from the Nationals in a three-way
trade that sends catcher John Jaso to the A's, who deal minor league
pitchers A.J. Cole and Blake Treinen, and a player to be named later to
Washington. The 30-year-old OF/1B, obtained to provide additional punch to
Seattle's middle-of-the-order, spent the first four years of his big league
career playing for the Northwest team.

2014
Expanded instant replay is unanimously approved at the quarterly Owners
Meetings, a concept previously agreed on by the Players Association and World
Umpires Association. Each manager will begin a game with one challenge, and
beginning in the top of the seventh, the crew chief will also be able to ask
to institute a review from the Replay Command Center at MLBAM headquarters
in New York.

2017
The World Champion Cubs are welcomed at the White House by President Barack
Obama, a noted White Sox patron who is offered a midnight pardon by Chicago
GM Theo Epstein for his partisanship, and his wife Michelle, a fan of the
Northside team. The Commander in Chief, in addition to receiving No. 44
jerseys from his fellow No. 44, Anthony Rizzo, is given a lifetime pass
to any Cubs game, a gift the First Lady will probably appreciate more than
her husband.

