Jan 17

1915
According to the Cleveland Plain Dealer, the American League franchise
will now be known as the Indians replacing the nickname the Naps - a change
necessitated due to the departure of player-manager Napolean Lajoie to the
Philadelphia A's. Team owner Charles W. Somers asked the city's baseball
writers for help, and with the feedback of their readers, the scribes
selected the team's new moniker to honor former Cleveland Spider player
Louis Sockalexis, the first Native American to play in the major Leagues.

1916
The Giants buy Benny Kauff, the Federal League's best player, from the
Brooklyn Tip Tops for $35,000. The 26-year-old center fielder's first
three seasons with New York are solid, but the trash-talking fly chaser
will never live up to his reputation of being the 'Ty Cobb of the Feds'.

1919
Washington sends C Eddie Ainsmith and P George Dumont to the Red Sox
for 2B Hal Janvrin and cash. The Red Sox then pack Ainsmith, P Slim Love
(acquired a month earlier in the Ernie Shore trade with the Yankees), and
Chick Shorten off to Detroit for infielder Ossie Vitt, who had been crowded
out by Bobby Jones. Ainsmith will stay just a short time in the Motor City
before the Tigers waive him to the Cardinals, who in turn will waive the
hard-drinking backstop to Brooklyn in 1923.

1922
Benny Kauff's appeal to be reinstated as a major league player is denied
by an appellate court. The former Giant outfielder believed his banishment
from the game by Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis is unjust due to his
1921 acquittal of the auto theft charges brought against him. Landis states
"That acquittal was one of the worst miscarriages of justice that ever came
under my observation."

1934
Carl Hubbell, the NL MVP winner, is rewarded with a $18,000 contract by
the New York Giants.

1936
The Yankees trade Jimmy DeShong and Jesse Hill to Washington for Bump Hadley
and Roy Johnson.

1937
Cleveland gets Moose Solters, Ivy Andrews, and Lyn Lary from the St. Louis
Browns for Joe Vosmik, Bill Knickerbocker, and Oral Hildebrand. The
3 departing Brownies are termed "real playboys" by manager Rogers
Hornsby. Solters and Andrews were also the RBI and ERA leaders for the
Brownies.

1952
Detroit owner Walter O. "Spike" Briggs dies at the age of 74. His son will
succeed him in the presidency.

1953
The Dodgers sell OF Andy Pafko to the Braves for Roy Hartsfield and
$50,000. The veteran Pafko hit .287 for Brooklyn and will up that by 10
points in Milwaukee.

Martin Aarjan Jole, a Dutch player, gets a tryout with a Reds farm club
in Columbia, SC. The 22-year-old, reputed to be a power hitter, wrote to
Rogers Hornsby, the new Reds manager, asking for a tryout.

1970
Major league teams select a record 357 players in the January phase of the
annual free-agent draft. Some notable choices:  Cleveland spends the top
pick on first baseman Chris Chambliss, and San Francisco chooses shortstop
Chris Speier. Both Chambliss and Speier will star in the major leagues
in 1971. Chambliss will win the AL Rookie of the Year Award; the rangey
(4.85 chances per game) Speier will help to stablize the infield for the
NL Western division champion San Francisco Giants. In the first round, the
Yankees pick one of the gems of the draft but Fred Lynn, a Chicago native,
decides not to sign with them. Lynn becomes the first player in baseball
history to win the MVP and Rookie of the Year awards in the same season
while playing for the 1975 Red Sox.

The Sporting News names Willie Mays as Player of the Decade for the 1960s.

In the Puerto Rican League, Fred Beene of Santurce pitches a 6-0 no-hitter
over Arecibo.

1977
Kansas City releases Tommy Davis, ending an 18-year career spent with 10
different teams.

1979
After resigning as the general manager of the Rangers nine day ago,
Danny O'Brien signs a contract to become the Mariners' president and CEO.

1983
Bob Horner and the Braves agree to a $6 million, four-year deal. The contract
includes $400,000 in bonuses if the Atlanta third baseman keeps his playing
weight under 215 pounds.

1989
Free-agent Claudell Washington leaves the Yankees to sign a 3-year contract
with the Angels.

2000
Free agent C Dave Nilsson signs a contract to play with the Chunichi Dragons
of the Japanese League. This will allow him to play for Australia in the
upcoming Olympics in Sydney.

2002
Commissioner Bud Selig indicates the Washington, D.C. area is a 'prime
candidate' to get a team if a franchise relocates in the near future. The
nation's capital has twice lost major league teams, the original franchise
shifted to Minnesota and became the Twins in 1961 and were replaced by the
expansion Senators who moved to Texas a decade later becoming the Rangers.

Avoiding arbitration, Darin Erstad (.258, 9, 63) and the Angels agree to a
one-year contract worth $6.25 million. The first baseman/outfielder, who
can be a free agent after the season, turned down a long-term deal from
Anaheim last spring estimated to be worth $50 million

Jermaine Dye agrees to a three-year extension worth $32 million to stay with
the A's. Oakland is counting on the injured outfielder (shattered his left
tibia fouling a ball off his leg just below the knee in game 4 of the ALDS)
to fill the void created by Jason Giambi's departure to New York.

The Angels obtain DH-1B Brad Fullmer from the Blue Jays for P Brian Cooper.

2003
Avoiding arbitration, the Reds give Danny Graves (7-3, 3.19, 32 saves)
a three-year deal. The former Reds closer is slated to join the starting
rotation this season after posting a 1-0 record with a 1.89 ERA in his four
appearances as a starter at the end of last season.

Despite his Cooperstown ban in the U.S., Pete Rose is nominated for
induction into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. The former member of
the 1984 Montreal squad, who banged out his 4,000th career hit, a double
off Jerry Koosman, as a member of the team, was named by the chairman of
the newly formed Canadian Baseball League, Tony Riviera.

Torii Hunter (.289, 29, 94) agrees to four-year, $32 million deal to stay
with the Twins. Although being a spark plug for the AL West division winners,
the 27-year-old Gold Glove outfielder didn't think he would be offered a
multiyear contract by the small-market team.

The A's sign free agent P John Halama to a contract.

In an effort to make the All-Star Game more meaningful, baseball owners
decide unanimously to give the winner of the game the home field advantage
in the World Series. The players, who are against the idea, must still
agree to the plan.

2005
With the Astros offering $13.5 million, Roger Clemens asks for $22 million
in salary arbitration. The amount, which would make the Rocket the richest
paid hurler in big league history, surpasses the previous record amount
submitted for arbitration of $18.5 million by Yankee Derek Jeter in 2001.

Former major leaguer Raymond 'Lee' Cunningham celebrates his 100th
birthday. The oldest living player, who made his debut with the Cardinals
in 1931, played in 14 games during two seasons hitting .154 in 26 plate
appearances.

The Devil Rays sign free agent 2B Roberto Alomar to a contract.

2006
At the 41st Annual Red Smith Sports Award Banquet, Gaylord Perry receives
the 2006 "Nice Guy" Award. The 67-year-old Hall of Famer, infamous for
throwing a spitball, joins Kirby Puckett, Lou Brock and Brooks Robinson as
recipients of this award.

After delaying his decision about playing in the World Baseball Classic,
Alex Rodriguez announces he will be a member of the United States team. The
Yankee All-Star third baseman had considered playing for Dominican Republic,
the homeland of his parents.

2008
The Blue Jays ink Scott Downs (4-2, 2.17) to a $10 million, three-year
deal. The southpaw tied for the American League lead in relief appearances
last season.

2012
Cole Hamels (14-9, 2.79) and the Phillies come to terms on a $15 million
one-year deal. It is the richest contract ever offered by a team to avoid
arbitration with a player.

Calling them the "greatest comeback team in the history of baseball,"
President Barack Obama welcomes the World Champion Cardinals to the White
House. Noticeably absent from the twenty Redbird players and other club
personnel that attended the East Room ceremony are Albert Pujols, now an
Angel after signing a very lucrative free-agent deal last month, and manager
Tony La Russa, who retired at the end of the season.

Avoiding arbitration, the Red Sox and Jacoby Ellsbury come to terms on a
one-year $8.05 million non-guaranteed deal. The 28-year-old outfielder,
the American League Comeback Player of the Year, finished second in the AL
Most Valuable Player balloting after hitting .321, belting 32 homeruns and
driving in 105 runs.

The Tigers announce that Victor Martinez (.330, 12, 103) will most likely
miss next season due to the tearing of the anterior cruciate ligament in
his left knee while he was working out last week. The anticipated absence
of the 33-year-old DH, a four-time All-Star, will lead to Detroit to sign
free-agent Cecil Fielder to a nine-year mega-deal worth $214 million.

2014
The Tigers come to terms with Max Scherzer on a one-year contract for
$15,525,000, avoiding arbitration with the 29-year-old right-hander, who
will be eligible for free agency after next season. The reigning American
League Cy Young Award winner posted a 21-3 record last season along with
a 2.90 ERA and 240 strikeouts, prior to earning two victories in the ALDS
against Oakland for the AL Central Division champs.

