Jan 20

1906
Henry Mathewson signs with the Giants, but the right-handers' performance
will not remind anyone of his more talented brother, Christy. The 19
year-old will appear in just three major league games over the next two
seasons compiling a 0-1 record along with an ERA of 4.91 at a time when
the average NL ERA was 2.61.

1916
The Giants buy Edd Roush from the Newark Tip Tops (Federal League) for
$7,500. Roush will hit just .188 in New York before being packaged to
Cincinnati, where he will blossom into a Hall of Famer. Along with Roush come
the contracts of C Bill Rariden from the Peps, infielder Bill McKecknie,
spitballer Fred Anderson from the Buffalo Bufffeds (AKA the Blues), and
Federal League star, the colorful Benny Kauf. The price is $65,000.

1930
Commissioner Landis bans boxing for all players in baseball following the
brief boxing career of White Sox 1B Art "Whataman" Shires. His challenge
to Hack Wilson purportedly prompts the ban. Shires fought several suspected
bouts that resulted in his being suspended by the boxing commissions of 32
states but loses a desultory 5-rounder to Chicago Bears center George (The
Brute) Trafton. Shires did win a punch out with Sox manager Lena Blackburne
and two hotel detectives late last season.

1931
After being released by the Indians, 33-year-old Joe Sewell signs with the
Yankees. Before retiring in 1934, the future Hall of Fame third baseman
will hit .282 during his three seasons with New York.

1947
Negro League standout Josh Gibson, sometimes referred to as the 'black
Babe Ruth' and arguably one of the greatest sluggers and catchers ever,
dies of a stroke at the age of 35. The future Hall of Fame catcher will be
put to rest in an unmarked grave in Allegheny Cemetery in Pittsburgh.

1954
The Indians and Senators swap catchers with Joe Tipton going to Washington
for Mickey Grasso.

1965
Rocky Colavito returns to Cleveland in a 3-way deal that sends outfielders Jim
Landis and Mike Hershberger and P Fred Talbot from the White Sox to Kansas
City; C Johnny Romano, OF Tommie Agee, and P Tommy John from Cleveland to
Chicago; and C Cam Carreon from the White Sox to the Indians. The Colavito
curse continues as Agee will win Rookie of the Year honors and John will
notch another 286 wins.

1966
Ted Williams, who compiled a .344 career batting average playing with the
Red Sox for 19 seasons, receives 282 votes of 302 ballots (93.4%) cast by
the writers of the BBWWA to be elected into the Hall of Fame. The 'Splendid
Splinter' becomes the first American League position player to be selected
in his first year of eligibility.

1970
Lou Boudreau achieves the Hall of Fame, receiving 232 of a possible 300 votes
in the BBWAA election. Ralph Kiner finishes 2nd with 167, 58 votes short.

1977
The Yankees obtain outfielder Paul Blair from Baltimore for outfielders
Elliot Maddox and Rick Bladt. Blair will prove a fine defensive addition
to the Yankees.

1978
George Bamberger, pitching coach for the Baltimore Orioles, is appointed
the Milwaukee Brewers' field manager.

1984
In a move that stuns New York fans, the White Sox draft Tom Seaver as
compensation for losing Type A free agent Dennis Lamp to the Blue Jays. The
Mets left Seaver off their protected list assuming - wrongly - that no team
would want to select the aging star, who finished 1983 with a 9-14 record
and a 3.55 ERA. This is the second time the Mets lose Seaver.

Free agent Pete Rose signs a one-year contract with the Expos.

1991
Red Sox pitcher Roger Clemens is arrested and charged with assaulting
a police officer during a disturbance at a Houston nightclub. Clemens'
brother Gary is also arrested.

1996
The White Sox sign free agent OF Tony Phillips to a 2-year contract and
tomorrow pick up OF Danny Tartabull from the Athletics. The A's get P Andrew
Lorraine and OF Charlie Poe in exchange.

The Brewers sign free agent P Ben McDonald to a 2-year contract.

1997
Former outfielder Curt Flood, who played most notably with the Cardinals,
dies of throat cancer at the age of 59. After being traded to the Phillies in
1969, the baseball pioneer refused to play for Philadelphia and challenged
the owners' reserve clause taking the matter as far as the U.S. Supreme
Court, where he lost the case, but laid the groundwork which would lead to
free agency in professional sports.

1998
Veteran P Lee Smith and 3B Terry Pendleton sign minor league contracts with
the Royals, who invite them to training camp as non-roster players.

2000
Baseball owners vote to give all their internet rights to the commissioner's
office. Selig is expected to parcel out monies in 30 equal amounts.

2001
George W. Bush, is sworn in as the 43rd President of the United States. The
former Texas Ranger owner, who had a scant 1.8 percent share of the team in
the beginning of the venture, and his partners bought the Texas franchise
from Eddie Chiles in 1989 for $86 million.

2003
The White Sox sign free agent P Tom Gordon to a contract.

The Cardinals sign free agent P Dustin Hermanson to a contract.

2005
Eric Gagne and the Dodgers agree to a $19-million, two-year deal. The 2003
National League's Cy Young Award winner, who set a major league-record 84
consecutive saves from August, 2002 to July, 2004, made $5 million last year
after arbitrators ruled in favor of the club's offer over the $8 million
request made by the L.A. closer.

2006
With the encouragement of President George W. Bush, a former major league
owner, baseball's second application to the Treasury Department's Office of
Foreign Assets Control to allow Cuba to play in the World Baseball Classic is
approved. The issues of potential espionage by Cuban spies accompanying the
team and money going to the Castro government have been resolved paving the
way for the Olympic champs to be one of the 16 teams to compete in the WBC.

At the introductory news conference, Bob Castellini, the new Reds' owner,
makes it clear on his first day on the job he plans to be a hands-on
CEO. Promising the fans a championship, the Cincinnati produce proprietor
plans to work out of the offices at Great American Ball Park on a daily basis
until he has a clear understanding of how a baseball front office operates.

Ozzie Guillen, who becomes the first foreign-born manager to win a World
Series, celebrates his 42nd birthday in a very special way. The White
Sox skipper, along with his wife Ibis and their son Oney become American
citizens today.

Danny Graves, the only major leaguer born in Viet Nam, travels to Quang Tri
province just south of the DMZ, to dedicate the country's first baseball
field. Seventeen explosive devices were removed between home base and the
outfield as the former soccer field was transformed into a diamond for the
Le Loi High School using money donated from Major League Baseball and the
Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund.

2009
Avoiding arbitration, Jonathan Papelbon agrees to a one-year contract with
the Red Sox. The 28-year-old All-Star closer has compiled a career 1.84
ERA, the second best in big league history among pitchers with at least
200 innings, trailing only Meriden's Ed Walsh mark of 1.82.

Avoiding arbitration, the Dodgers sign Russell Martin to a one-year deal. The
25-year-old catcher, a two-time all-star, will make $3.9 million this season
after making $500,000 last season.

Adam LaRoche signs a $7.05 million, one-year contract with the payroll-poor
Pirates. The 25-year-old first baseman's deal, which avoids the need for
arbitration, will most likely be the second richest in Pittsburgh this
season, being slightly less than shortstop Jack Wilson's $7.25 million.

Avoiding arbitration, Ryan Madson and the Phillies reach a preliminary
agreement on a $12 million, three-year contract. The right-handed reliever,
who posted a 3.05 ERA in 76 games out of the bullpen last year, finished
the season as the setup man for closer Brad Lidge, who was perfect in 48
save opportunities.

The Mariners obtain David Aardsma from the Red Sox in exchange for minor
league southpaw, Fabian Williamson. Seattle plans to use the 27-year-old
right-hander, a first-round draft pick in 2003, out of the bullpen.

The Brewers sign Matt Ginter to a minor league contract, Seth McClung
avoiding arbitration, and Adam Stern to a minor league contract.

2012
Avoiding salary arbitration, the Nationals sign Mike Morse to a reported
two-year contract extension. The 29-year-old outfielder/infielder, who had
been asking for $5 million, led the team in batting (.303 average), homeruns
(31) and runs batted in (95) last season.

