Jan 24

1913
In a story in the New York Times, Detroit Tiger President Frank Navin
blames the length of the games on the "coachers boxes." Navin, reacting
to AL President Ban Johnsons' complaint that too many games the previous
season had taken two hours to play, says the boxes should be moved back
so that the catcher can give the pitcher his signals more quickly. From
where they are now, he said, the coaching players can detect the catcher's
signals unless he takes a lot of time to hide them. Navin said this slow
signalling is the reason for the longer games (as noted by Lyle Spatz).

1915
In a retreat from the FL competition, the Baltimore Orioles of the
International League move to Richmond, VA. With the demise of the FL,
the Orioles will return to Baltimore.

1922
Brooklyn buys SS Sam Crane from Cincinnati. He will play in 3 games and
later be convicted of murder. He will be visited in prison by Connie Mack,
who works for his parole and gives him a job.

1939
'Wee' Willie Keeler, George Sisler and Eddie Collins are elected into the
Hall of Fame.

1950
Jackie Robinson signs a contract for $35,000, reportedly making him the
highest paid Brooklyn player in history.

1955
In an effort to speed up the game, major league baseball announces a new
rule which requires a pitcher to deliver the ball within 20 seconds after
taking a pitching position.

1961
The A's trade outfielders Whitey Herzog and Russ Snyder to the Orioles
for IF Wayne Causey, P Jim Archer, OF Bob Boyd, and OF Al Pilarcik. Boyd,
with the Orioles since 1956, leaves with a .301 average with the Birds,
a team career mark that won't be topped this century.

1962
The Southern Association, which lost New Orleans and Memphis in the last
two years and with attendance lagging, suspends operation.

1973
In his first year of eligibility, Warren Spahn receives 316 of the 380 votes
cast to become a member of the Hall of Fame. The southpaw, who recorded
thirteen 20-win seasons, retired as the winningest left-handed pitcher in
big league history with 363 victories.

1980
Nelson Doubleday and Fred Wilpon head a group of investors which purchases the
New York Mets for a reported $21.1 million, the highest price paid to date
for a ML baseball franchise. Doubleday, whose publishing company supplied
80 percent of the purchase price, will serve as chairman of the board,
while Wilpon, a former teammate of Sandy Koufax' at Brooklyn's Lafayette
High School, will be president and chief operating officer.

1998
Minor league 1B Doug Blosser is killed in an automobile accident in Sarasota,
Florida.

2000
The Rockies sign free agent closer Billy Taylor.

Yankee prospect D'Angelo Jimenez suffers a broken neck when a car he
is driving in the Dominican Republic collides with a bus. Jimenez is not
paralyzed but will miss the 2000 season. He figured to be the Yankee reserve
infielder, taking over the role that Luis Sojo, now with the Pirates,
filled last season.

2001
Believed to be a historical first, sixty-eight major league umpires
participate in a pre-season session to practice calling strikes as
defined by the rule book. With the help of minor leaguers wearing tapes
nine inches above their belts, the men in blue get a good look at pitches,
normally called balls, which now will be considered a strike as the correct
interpretion of the zone will be enforced this upcoming season.

2005
The Diamondbacks sign free agent 1B Tony Clark to a contract.

2006
Jay Gibbons (.277, 26, 79) and the Orioles agree to a $21.1 million,
four-year deal and avoid salary arbitration. The 28-year-old outfielder,
who is getting married this weekend could have taken his chances on the
free agent market next season.

The Red Sox give Theo Epstein the title of GM again. Larry Lucchino, team
president states, "Theo returns as general manager to an organization that is
different from the one he left on Oct. 31. The 14-year relationship between
Theo and me, and the passage of time over the last three months, have helped
to put behind us the friction that developed during last year's negotiations."

Red Sox P Guillermo Mota fails a physical, which puts the proposed Red
Sox-Indians trade in danger. The trade will send OF Coco Crisp, P David Riske
and C Josh Bard to the Red Sox for Mota, 3B Andy Marte and C Kelly Shoppach.

2007
Coming off an injured Achilles tendon, Cliff Floyd signs a very flexible deal
with the Cubs, beginning with a one-year guaranteed contract for $3 million
to one which could be worth as much as $17.5 million over two years. The
Chicago native will give the North-siders left-handed power off the bench
and is expected to platoon with Matt Murton.

2008
Avoiding arbitration, the Braves sign Rafael Soriano (3-3, 3.00) to a
two-year deal worth $9 million. The team plans to use the relief pitcher,
who had nine saves in 2007, as their closer this season.

