Jan 26

1902
Lulu Ortman, a recently jilted girl friend of Boston's Chick Stahl, is
arrested in Fort Wayne, IN after an unsuccessful attempt to shoot him.

1919
The Cardinals' board of directors votes to pay off the contract of manager
Jack Hendricks. Team president Branch Rickey assumes the managerial role
as well, with no increase in salary.

1930
Carl Mays, whose underhand pitch killed Ray Chapman 10 years earlier, ends his
ML career with 208 victories and signs with Portland (Pacific Coast League).

1931
Another Oakland star, Buzz Arlett, long coveted by ML teams and long withheld
by Oakland, is sold to the Phillies.

A remarkable story:  The Boston Braves release 29-year-old pitcher Johnny
Cooney, a 14-game winner in 1925 but a sub-par performer over the last four
seasons. Cooney insisted he could hit well enough to stay in the majors as a
regular outfielder. He will spend the next four seasons in the minors before
joining the Brooklyn Dodgers for 13 plate appearances in 1935. However,
the following season at 35 - an age at which most players of that era were
retiring - Cooney wins a starting job in the Brooklyn outfield and goes
on to play nine more major league seasons, six of them as a regular. He
returns to the Braves in 1939 and hits .319 in 1941 to finish second in
the National League batting race to Dodgers centerfielder Pete Reiser.

The International League accepts the open draft imposed by the major
leagues. Until this time the top minor leagues could control their players
and refuse to sell them.

1932
William K. Wrigley, 70 years old, majority owner of the Cubs since 1919,
dies and is buried on Catalina Island. His only son, Philip K. Wrigley,
inherits the Cubs and the minor league Los Angeles Angels, but will leave
most of the daily operations to president William Veeck.

1951
The baseball writers vote Mel Ott and Jimmie Foxx into the Hall of Fame.

1952
Because of poor attendance, the Canadian-American League suspends operations
for its 1952 season. This is one of 7 minor leagues that will not operate this
year, dropping the total from 50 to 43. The Korean War military obligation
is the primary reason.

1957
Lou Perini is replaced by Joe Cairnes as president of the Braves. Perini,
the owner of the club, will be best remembered as the person responsible
for moving the franchise from Boston to Milwaukee in 1953.

1960
Boston OF Jackie Jensen, 32, announces his retirement from baseball. Jensen
will later say, "Looking back, it was foolish to quit. But I thought it
would answer my problems [one of which was his great fear of flying]." Jensen
will return to play in 1961 before retiring again for good.

1961
The Reds send Joe Nuxhall to the KC A's for pitchers John Tsitouris and John
Briggs. Nuxhall first pitched for the Reds in 1944 when he was 15 years old.

1962
Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle sign contracts with Columbia Pictures to appear
with star Doris Day in "Safe at Home," a movie the studio will shoot during
spring training.

1963
The ML Rules Committee votes to expand the strike zone, restoring it to
pre-1950 standards:  from the top of the shoulders to the bottom of the knees.

1983
The White Sox trade pitchers Steve Trout and Warren Brusstar to the Cubs
for pitchers Randy Martz and Dick Tidrow and infielders Pat Tabler and
Scott Fletcher.

1989
The rules initiated last season to make balk calls more uniform throughout
baseball are rescinded and are replaced by the pre-1988 rules. The wording
change from 'a complete stop' to 'a single complete and discernible stop,
with both feet on the ground' had caused umpires to call an unprecedented
amount of balks in both the American and National Leagues.

1990
Red Sox hire Elaine Weddington as the assistant general manager of the
team making her the highest ranking black female executive in major league
baseball.

1994
The Astros sign free agent 1B Sid Bream.

1995
Players and owners are told by President Clinton to resume bargaining and
reach an agreement by February 6.

2001
The June 8-10 (Arlington) and June 15-17 (Houston) interleague games between
the Astros and Rangers will be known as the Lone Star Series. It will be
first time ever the two Texan teams have played one another during the
regular season.

The Royals sign free agent IF Luis Alicea.

2002
The Mariners trade David Bell to the Giants for infielder Desi Relaford. The
veteran third baseman became expendable when Seattle acquired Jeff Cirillo
from the Rockies earlier in the off-season.

2004
Seattle Mariners' lefthander Jamie Moyer wins the Hutch Award which the
baseball writers annually bestow on a player who demonstrates courage while
overcoming personal and professional adversity. The honor derives its name
from Fred Hutchinson, a popular former major league pitcher and the manager
of the 1961 National League champion Cincinnati Reds. Hutchinson died on
November 12, 1964 after battling lung cancer.

The Mets acquire P Shawn Sedlacek from the Royals in exchange for pitcher
Jaime Cerda.

2005
After failing to sign free agent first baseman Carlos Delgado, the Mets
quickly fill the void at first base by trading minor league prospect Ian
Bladergroen and a player to be named (or cash) to Boston for Gold Glover
Doug Mientkiewicz. The Red Sox, who acquired the 30-year-old infielder
from the Twins at the non-waiver trade deadline to solidify their defense,
will use heavy hitting, light fielding Kevin Millar at first.

2009
The Yankees sign starting pitcher Andy Pettitte to a $5.5 million, one-year
deal, less than half the club's original $10 million offer. The 36-year-old
southpaw, however, can make an additional $4.5 million based on innings
pitched and another $2 million dependent on days spent on the active roster.

Avoiding salary arbitration, the Royals and Zack Greinke agree to a $38
million, four-year contract. The 25-year-old right-hander, grateful to the
club for their understanding of his social disorder which caused him to
bolt from spring training two years ago, posted a 13-10 record last season
with the best ERA (3.47) by a Kansas City starter in 11 years.

2010
Jon Garland and the Padres agree to a $5.3 million, one-year deal that
includes a mutual option for $6.75 million in 2011. Along with Chris Young
and Kevin Correia, the 30-year-old right-hander, known for his durability,
will play a major role in San Diego's rotation.

Ben Sheets and the A's come to terms on a $10 million one-year contract
making the free-agent right-hander the team's second-highest paid player
behind third baseman Eric Chavez. The 31-year-old, recovering from elbow
surgery that caused him to miss all of last season, compiled an 86-83 record
along with a 3.72 ERA during in his first eight seasons in the major leagues,
all with Milwaukee.

2012
Prince Fielder and the Tigers agree to a nine-year $214 million contract,
a move necessitated with the AL Central champion's loss of Victor Martinez,
who could miss the entire season after tearing his left ACL while conditioning
in the off-season. As a child, Prince hit fence-clearing drives when taking
batting practice with his dad, Cecil, who hit 51 homeruns playing with
Detroit in 1990.

The Mets announce that John Franco, the club's all-time leader in saves and
games pitched, will be inducted into the team's Hall of Fame. The All-Star
closer, who has the second longest tenure in franchise history behind Ed
Kranepool, compiled 276 saves of his career 424 saves, the most by any
left-handed reliever in baseball history, with New York.

2013
The Nationals announce that William Howard Taft has been named to become
the fifth participant in the team's iconic Presidents Race, a Washington,
D.C. ballpark tradition since 2006. The 27th President of the United States
will compete against the Rushmore Four:  George, Tom, Abe and Teddy.

