Jan 28

1901
The AL formally organizes:  the Baltimore Orioles, Philadelphia Athletics,
and Boston Somersets are admitted to join the Washington Nationals,
Cleveland Blues, Detroit Tigers, Milwaukee Brewers, and Chicago White
Stockings. Three of the original clubs - Indianapolis, Minneapolis, and
Buffalo - are dropped. League power aggregates in Ban Johnson as trustee for
all ballpark leases and majority stockholdings, and with authority to buy
out refractory franchises. Player limit is 14 per team, and the schedule
will be 140 games. AL contracts give the Players Protective Association
what it asked for, with 5-year limits on the rights to player services.

1907
In an effort to reduce playing-date conflicts between their leagues,
presidents Pulliam and Johnson meet to plan schedules. Conflicting dates
are reduced to 27.

1949
Monte Irvin becomes the first African-American player, along with hurler Ford
Smith, to sign with the Giants. They are assigned to Jersey City. Although
the 29-year-old outfielder will only play five full season in the major
leagues, the former Newark Eagles standout will be elected to the Hall of
Fame in 1973, primarily for his outstanding play in the Negro Leagues. Smith
never makes the major leagues.

1953
Owner Fred Saigh of the Cardinals is found guilty of income tax evasion and
is sentenced to a 15-month jail term. He plans to sell the club. Cardinal
Vice President W. Walsingham Jr is the acting president until Saigh can
divest himself of his stock.

1958
The Tigers trade 3B Jim Finigan and $25,000 to the Giants for IF Ozzie Virgil
and 1B Gail Harris. Virgil is the first black player in a Tiger uniform.

The Athletics sign P Murry Dickson as a free agent.

1961
The International League Board of Directors unanimously vote to move the
Montreal franchise to Syracuse, NY.

1962
Edd Roush and Bill McKechnie are added to the Hall of Fame by the Special
Veterans Committee.

1964
Reds CF Vada Pinson is cleared of assault charges stemming from a September
5, 1963 incident when Cincinnati sportswriter Earl Lawson does not pursue
charges further.

1968
Goose Goslin and Kiki Cuyler are admitted into the Hall of Fame by unanimous
vote of the Special Veterans Committee.

1973
The Hall of Fame Special Veterans Committee selects 19th-century players
Mickey Welch and George Kelly, plus umpire Billy Evans, for enshrinement.

1974
The Hall of Fame Special Veterans Committee selects Sam Thompson, Jim
Bottomley, and umpire Jocko Conlan.

1980
Henry Aaron refuses an award from Commissioner Bowie Kuhn honoring him
for hitting his 715th homerun. Aaron charges that baseball's treatment of
retired Negro League ballplayers falls far short of what is needed.

1982
The Angels trade outfielder Dan Ford to the Orioles for third baseman Doug
DeCinces and minor league P Jeff Schneider.

1986
The Rangers sign 34-year-old free-agent catcher Darrell Porter to a one-year
contract. The bespectacled backup backstop will hit .253 during his tenure
in Texas, his last two years in the majors.

1992
Tigers 1B Cecil Fielder avoids arbitration by agreeing to a $4.5 million
contract, for the largest single-season deal in history.

1993
The Brewers sign free agent OF Tom Brunansky.

2000
The Orioles sign free agent P Pat Rapp to a contract.

2002
The Rangers continue to shore up their pitching staff by signing free agent
Ismael Valdes to a 1-year contract.

2003
A federal judge tosses out a lawsuit by baseball umpires ruling that Major
League Baseball's decision to discipline union head John Hirschbeck is not
subject to arbitration. Last May 10 Commissioner Bud Selig sent Hirschbeck a
letter stating that Hirschbeck had instructed plate umpire Mark Carlson not
to issue a warning to Cincinnati's Gabe White after a pitch sailed over the
head of San Francisco's Barry Bonds during an April 28 game in Cincinnati. MLB
also claimed that its computerized umpire evaluation system indicated that
Hirschbeck had "a high percentage of missed calls of balls and strikes"
in a game on May 4. A union lawyer said last summer that the dispute wasn't
over discipline of Hirschbeck, but was about management's reliance on the
Questec computerized evaluation system, which the union claims is inaccurate.

The Giants sign free agent OF Jose Cruz Jr to a contract.

2004
The Mets sign veteran free agent 3B Todd Zeile to a contract.

2005
Recently traded first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz, who caught and kept
the ball used to make the last out giving the Red Sox their first World
championship after an 86-year drought, will lend his souvenir to his former
club. The historic horsehide, which Boston claims belongs to the team,
will be encased within a plaque and will become part of the victory tour
which includes the World Series trophy.

2008
The Rays and James Shields (12-8, 3.85) finalize a $11.25 million, four-year
deal which includes options that could make the contract worth nearly $38
million over the next seven years. The 26-year-old right-hander was second
in the big leagues in strikeout-to-walk ratio - an impressive 184 to 36
trailing only C.C. Sabathia (209 to 37).

2009
Avoiding salary arbitration, the Angels and 28-year-old infielder Maicer
Izturis come to terms on a one-year deal worth $1.6 million. The Halos'
opening-day shortstop missed 61 games last season after tearing a ligament in
his left thumb in August and straining his lower back in May, necessitating
the first of his two stints on the disabled list.

Aaron Heilman is traded for the second time this offseason when the Mariners
swap the 30-year-old right hander to the Cubs for utility infielder Ronny
Cedeno and southpaw Garrett Olson. Seven weeks ago, the Mets dealt the
much-maligned reliever to Seattle as part of a three-team trade.

David Weathers decides to stay with Cincinnati after signing a one-year deal
that guarantees the 39-year-old reliever $3.9 million. A member of the Reds
pitching staff for the past four seasons, the right hander compiled a 4-6
record posting a 3.25 ERA in 72 appearances from the bullpen last season.

2011
The Twins plan to remove the 14 pine trees located behind the center
field wall that were planted last season to be the batter's eye at Target
Field. The evergreens, which possibly will be relocated inside the newly
opened ballpark, made it difficult for hitters to pick up the ball from
the pitcher's hand due to the movement of the conifers in the wind and the
shadows cast during afternoon contests.

