Jan 30

1902
Dashing Tony Mullane, the first player to have jumped the reserve rule by
signing with the St. Louis Unions of the Union Association in 1883, signs
a contract with Toledo, of the new American Association (AAA).

1917
Grover Cleveland Alexander announces he is ready to retire from pro baseball
and join a semipro team if his salary demands are not met. Alexander wants
a 3-year contract at $15,000 per year.

1919
During World War I, unable to get in touch with their manager Christy
Mathewson, who is in France serving in the army, the Reds hire Pat Moran. The
former Phillies skipper will lead Cincinnati to a World Championship.

The Braves acquire INF Lena Blackburne from the Reds for OF Wally Rehg.

The Hal Chase trial begins in New York. Chase brought suit against Cincinnati
for non-payment of salary due him while he was suspended in August, 1918. He
denies charges of throwing games.

1923
The Red Sox continue to feed the Yankees, sending P Herb Pennock to New
York in exchange for IF Norm McMillan, P George Murray, OF Camp Skinner,
and $50,000.

1926
The ML Rules Committee agrees that pitchers may have access to a resin
bag. On February 8th the AL will refuse to permit its use, but on April 28th
the league will give in and allow a resin bag on the field, but discourage
its use by players. The Committee also discusses the elimination of the
intentional walk, a topic that has come up before, by making the pitcher
throw to the batter. Calling a catcher balk has not eliminated the intentional
walk as intended. No action is taken.

1936
The new owners of the Boston Braves ask newspapermen to pick a new nickname
for the team from suggestions made by fans. They choose the Bees, but the
name will not catch on, and it will be scrapped after the 1940 season.

1948
Herb Pennock, 53-year-old general manager of the Phillies and former star
southpaw, collapses in a New York hotel lobby and dies a short time later
at a local hospital.

1953
Peter J. McGovern becomes the Little League's first full time president
and the league's office is moved to Williamsport, PA.

1954
The Giants trade playoff hero Bobby Thomson and Sam Calderone to the Braves
for Johnny Antonelli, Don Liddle and Ebba St. Claire. Antonelli will go
21-7 and will lead the league in ERA.

1958
Commissioner Ford Frick announces fans will no longer vote for the all
stars. The teams will now be selected by major league players and coaches.

1959
The Reds trade catcher Smoky Burgess, pitcher Harvey Haddix and third baseman
Don Hoak to the Pirates. In return, Cincinnati receives third baseman Frank
Thomas, right-hander Whammy Douglas, outfielder Johnny Powers and utility
man Jim Pendleton along with cash. The deal will turn out to be one on the
worst in Reds history while Hoak, Haddix, and Burgess will each make vital
contributions when the Pirates become World Series champions in 1960.

1962
The Milwaukee Braves sign Peter Marchegiano, brother of former heavyweight
boxing champ Rocky Marciano, to a minor league contract.

The Mets sign 1B Gil Hodges for $33,000. The veteran had been languishing
on the Dodger bench for the past 2 seasons.

1964
The United States Senate Subcommittee on Monopolies begins hearings on
baseball.

1977
Edward W. Stack is elected president of the Hall of Fame succeeding the
retiring Paul Kerr.

1978
Commissioner Kuhn voids the Vida Blue deal (12/9/77) between the A's and
the Reds, suggesting a restructuring of the trade.

Former P Addie Joss and former executive Larry MacPhail are voted into the
Hall of Fame by the Special Veterans Committee.

1984
After failing to trade him, the Mets give veteran slugger Dave Kingman his
release. Kingman hit .198 with 13 homeruns last year, but will find a new
home as Oakland's designated hitter.

1987
The Cubs trade veteran third baseman Ron Cey for the A's infielder Luis
Quinones. The 'Penguin' will be released after playing 45 games for Oakland,
and the 39-year-old retires with a lifetime batting average of .261 after
17 years in the major leagues.

1994
The Royals sign free agent OF Dave Henderson.

1996
The expansion Devil Rays name the first two skippers of their minor league
system. Former major leaguer Tom Foley will manage at Butte in the Pioneer
League and veteran minor league coach and manager Bill Evers will be at
the helm for the St. Petersburg team in the Gulf Coast Rookie League.

The Phillies sign free agent C Benito Santiago.

2002
The Phillies sign free agent OF Ricky Ledee to a 1-year contract.

The Pirates sign free agent 2B Pokey Reese to a 2-year contract. Pittsburgh
is Reese's 4th team since the end of the 2001 season. He finished the
year with Cincinnati, and then was traded to the Rockies and the Red Sox
in a span of three days in December. Boston did not offer him a contract,
making him a free agent.

The Mariners sign free agent P James Baldwin to a 1-year contract.

2003
In his first year of eligibility by a unanimous vote of the media covering the
team, Cal Ripken Jr joins his dad by becoming the 40th member of the Orioles
Hall of Fame. The formal ceremony will take place on September 6, 2003 which
marks the eighth anniversary of the night the Baltimore infielder broke
Lou Gehrig's record consecutive games streak of 2,130 games at Camden Yards.

2006
The Cubs and Jerry Hairston Jr (.261, 4. 30) avoid salary arbitration when
the second baseman/outfielder agrees to a one-year, $2.3 million deal. The
29-year-old Illinois native was acquired from the Orioles last February
for slugger Sammy Sosa.

2007
The Yankees, who will send coaches, scouts and player-development staff to
the Far East, agree to help establish baseball academies in China. Randy
Levine, team president, committed the Bronx Bombers to help the Chinese
Baseball Association develop young talent while also trying to promote the
game in a culture in which the sport remains virtually unknown to the Chinese.

2009
The Mets avoid salary arbitration with John Maine (10-8, 4.18) when both
sides agree to a $2.6 million, one-year deal. The 25-year-old right-handed
starter, who missed the last five weeks of the season due to an injury to
his pitching shoulder, is expected to play a major role this year in the
team's pitching rotation.

Locking up their most effective starter, the Pirates avoid arbitration,
signing Paul Maholm through his remaining elgible years to a $14.5 million,
three-year contract, which includes a team option for 2012. In his 31 starts
for the Bucs last season, the 26-year-old southpaw compiled a 9-9 record
with a 3.71 ERA for a Pittsburgh team which finished 28 games under .500.

Jason Varitek reaches a preliminary agreement with the Red Sox for a reported
guaranteed $5 million, one year contract which includes options for the
2010 season. The team's catcher and captain, a 12-year veteran, accepts much
less than he would have made had he taken the team's arbitration offer made
in December.

Jon Garland agrees to a one-year deal with the Diamondbacks worth at least
$7.25 million. The 29-year-old right hander, who will fill Randy Johnson's
spot as a starter, joins a strong Arizona rotation which includes Brandon
Webb, Dan Haren, Max Scherzer and Doug Davis.

Appearing on CNN's "Larry King Live", Joe Torre answers questions concerning
the inflammatory excerpts of his book, "The Yankee Years", which caused a
firestorm of reaction from former players and fans after they were released
last week. The Dodgers skipper, who managed the Bronx Bombers for a dozen
seasons, tells the host he believes the controversy will die down and people
will cool down after they get a chance to read the actual book.

2012
The Rangers sign Ron Washington to a two-year contract extension which
will keep the 59-year-old skipper in the Texas dugout through the 2014
season. Washington piloted the team to consecutive appearances in the
World Series, losing to the San Francisco and St. Louis in 2010 and 2011
respectively.

