Jan 31

1927
NL President John Heydler rules that Rogers Hornsby cannot continue to
hold stock in the Cardinals and play for the Giants. Seemingly oblivious,
the Cards board of directors meeting in St. Louis, voted stockholders a 10%
dividend, earning Hornsby $2916 for his 1167 shares.

1941
Paul Waner, released by Pittsburgh in December 1940, signs with
Brooklyn. He'll play 11 games before moving onto the Braves, but he'll
return to Brooklyn in 1943.

1950
The Pirates sign high school P Paul Pettit for a record $100,000 after
buying his contract from film producer Fred Stephani, who had signed
him to an exclusive contract as an athlete/actor (scouts are barred from
doing so prior to graduation under major league baseball's "high-school
rule"). Unfortunately, with an eventual 1-2 career mark, he will prove not
to be worth the trouble.

1952
Harry Heilmann with 203 votes and Paul Waner with 195 become the newest
members of the Hall of Fame.

The Phils settle their damage suit with former P Art Lopatka out of
court. He contends that the Phils made him pitch with a fractured index
finger, resulting in damage to his arm. He further contends that when he
was no longer of use, the Phillies released him as "damaged goods" in 1947.

A U.S. federal jury awards Mexican owner Jorge Pasquel $35,000 for breach
of contract by former Dodger star, Mickey Owen.

1953
New York, Cleveland, and Boston retaliate at Bill Veeck, forcing the Browns
to play afternoon games. Veeck takes his plan to the AL office to make them
play. The plan is rejected.

1956
The Reds send Jackie Collum to the Cards for pitchers Brooks Lawrence and
Sonny Senerchia. Lawrence, who finished the year at 5-1 after spending time
in the minors, will open the 1956 season with 13 straight victories.

1959
Joe Cronin signs a seven-year deal to become the American League
president. The former Senator and Red Sox infielder will remain in the post
until 1973, when he will be succeeded by Lee MacPhail.

Caribbean countries agree to use native players in winter ball, no matter
how many years they have played in the U.S.

1961
Houston voters approve financing for a domed stadium removing the last
hurdle to gaining a major league franchise for the Texas city. The Astrodome,
the eighth wonder of the world, will be the result of today's approval and
will serve as the Astros home from 1965-1999.

1962
Willie Mays signs the biggest contract in baseball, a reported $90,000 for
1962. They also sign another slugger - Ralph Kiner joins Lindsey Nelson
and Bob Murphy in the announcing booth.

1965
Pud Galvin is chosen for Hall of Fame induction by the Special Veterans
Committee.

Masanori Murakami, the first Japanese player in the major leagues, says he
will not return to the Giants in 1965.

1969
The National Association approves the use of the Designated Hitter for the
International, Eastern, Texas and New York-Pennsylvania Leagues. The rules
vary slightly for each league. The Texas League will be the first to use
the DH, in April.

The 2 major leagues agree to try an experimental rule change in spring
training using a designated pinch hitter, but they don't agree on the
implementation (as noted by John Lewis). The American League tells the
teams to use the designated PH when they are the home team; the National
League gives the home manager the choice of which rules to use, but the
visiting manager has to agree. The NL had three rules:  Rule A allows for a
pinch-hitter to bat for the pitcher twice in a game with the pitcher remaining
in the game. The pitcher could be used to bat for himself at anytime. An
example is a PH batting for the pitcher the first time and fourth time;
the pitcher could bat the second at-bat; another PH could bat the third
time. A pinch-hitter could play defensively, if he took the field the next
half-inning after batting. The pitcher would bat in the replaced player's
spot. Rule B is the DH rule that will eventually be the standard in the AL,
except the player could not go in defensively later. Rule C allows for a
pinch-runner only twice in a game for the pitcher or PH in rule A or DH in
rule B. The PR can enter defensively at any time, even though he appeared
twice as a runner. The Mets, Giants, and Cardinals say that they will not
use the rules, and the Astros and Reds follow suit.

1971
The Hall of Fame Special Veterans Committee selects 7 men for enshrinement:
former players Jake Beckley, Joe Kelley, Harry Hooper, Rube Marquard,
Chick Hafey, Dave Bancroft, and executive George Weiss.

1977
One-time Indian infielder Joe Sewell, former Giants hurler Amos Rusie, and Al
Lopez, as a manager of the White Sox, are elected to the Hall of Fame. Their
selection to the Cooperstown shrine is made by the Veterans Committee.

1980
The Astros sign free-agent second baseman Joe Morgan. Houston was the first
major league team the two-time MVP played with before he was traded to the
Reds and became a cog in the Big Red Machine.

1983
Future Hall of Famer Tony Perez signs a one-year contract with the
Phillies. The veteran first baseman will hit .241 appearing in 91 games in
his only season with Philadelphia.

1992
The Pirates sign OF Barry Bonds to a one-year contract worth $4.7 million,
the largest-ever one-year deal.

1994
The Angels sign free agent OF Bo Jackson.

1996
Ken Griffey Jr becomes baseball's highest-paid player by signing a 4-year
$34 million contract.

2000
Commissioner Bud Selig suspends John Rocker until May 1 due to the
Braves closer's racial and ethnic insensitive remarks reported in Sports
Illustrated. The 25-year-old reliever is also fined and ordered to attend
sensitivity training.

2001
The Wall Street Journal quotes former players Monte Irvin, Sal Yvars and
Al Gettel admitting the team stole catchers' signs during the 1951 pennant
race when the Giants overcame the Dodgers' 13 1/2-game lead. According to
the WSJ report, Bobby Thomson, whose three-run, ninth-inning walk-off homer
in Game 3 of the National League playoffs won the pennant for New York,
did not steal a sign before hitting his historic homerun. Except for Sal
Yvars, all the participants will deny using the system during the 3-game
playoff with the Dodgers.

2002
Philadelphia Phillies announcer Harry Kalas is voted the Ford C. Frick
Award. He will be inducted into the broadcasters' wing of the Hall of Fame
on July 28.

2003
In an effort to secure funding for a major re-design of the 12-year-old
'new' Comiskey Park, the White Sox announces the ballpark will now be known
as U.S. Cellular Field. The 23-year deal with the wireless service provider,
which will pay the White Sox $68 million, changes the name of the home used
by the Southsiders since 1910. The Sox say a major difference from most
stadium sponsorship deals is that the revenue from the naming rights will
be used for changes within the ballpark they say will enhance the enjoyment
of the game for the fan.

Umpire Bruce Froemming is handed a 10-day suspension without pay and
will miss a trip to work the major league opener in Tokyo for using an
anti-Semitic slur. Baseball's most senior crew chief made the remark about
umpiring administrator Cathy Davis after talking to officials regarding
his travel arrangements to Japan. Thinking the phone was disconnected. He
referred to her as a "stupid Jew bitch." "I'm sincerely sorry," Froemming
said. "I made a stupid remark and I accept my punishment. I've apologized
to Ms. Davis. There was no anti-Semitism whatsoever on my part."

2007
At New York's Gracey Mansion, Major League Baseball announces the 2008 All
Star Game will be played at Yankee Stadium for the fourth time (1939, 1960,
1977) in the ballpark's history. The annual Midsummer Classic classic will
showcase the historic 'House that Ruth Built' in its final season as the
home of the Bronx Bombers.

2008
Pedro Feliz (.253, 20,72) and the Phillies come to terms on an $8.5 million,
two-year contract which could be worth up to $15 million over three years
with an option and various performance bonuses. The versatile free-agent
third baseman helps the club to shore up its weakness at the hot corner.

Brad Wilkerson (.234, 20, 62) signs a one-year, $3 million contract to roam
the outfield for the Mariners. The acquisition of the free-agent flycatcher
may be an indication that the much anticipated trade with the Orioles for
southpaw Erik Bedard is close, as Seattle includes outfielder Adam Jones
to Baltimore as part of the deal.

2011
Rafael Betancourt becomes the fifth non-free agent to sign a multiyear
deal with the Rockies when he agrees to a new contract that calls for $4
million in 2012 and includes a $4.25 million mutual option for the following
season. The 35-year-old right-handed reliever joins shortstop Troy Tulowitzki,
outfielder Carlos Gonzalez, and hurlers Matt Lindstrom and Jason Hammel to
be offered an extended deal from Colorado this offseason.

2013
Martin Prado, acquired by the Diamondbacks in the Justin Upton trade with
Atlanta, agrees to a $40-million four-year contract with his new team. The
29-year-old All-Star, who plays both in the outfield and the infield, is
slated to play third base to help fill the void created by the departure
of Chris Johnson, who was also sent to the Braves in the deal.

