Dec 3

1901
At the league meeting, the Milwaukee franchise is officially dropped from
the AL and is replaced by the St. Louis Browns. "Messrs. Comiskey, Shibe and
Postal were appointed a committee to perfect the transfer of the Milwaukee
club and franchise to St. Louis." Second day - "...the greater part of the
time was consumed in adjusting the various details connected with the transfer
of the Milwaukee team and franchise to St. Louis, with the Killilea brothers,
of Milwaukee, as the principal owners of the new club" (1902 Reach Baseball
Guide). The Reach Guide of 1902 also states, somewhat contradictorily, "In
St. Louis also there was an important shift, the Killileas, of Milwaukee,
disposing of their entire holdings to a local syndicate of wealthy business
men, composed of Messrs. R.L. Hedges, Ralph Orthwein and R. Gardner. The club
was then reorganized as the 'St. Louis American League Base Ball Company,'
with $50,000 capital, and with Messrs. Orthwein, Hedges, McDiarmid, Bruce and
Gardner as Directors." Ralph Orthwein, President of the new St. Louis team
is described as the youngest ("not yet 30") and possibly the wealthiest
("rated a millionaire in his own right and the son of a millionaire")
of the league's presidents.

1908
Cuba's 21-year-old Jose Mendez of Almendares shuts out Cincinnati, 3-0,
to complete 25 straight shutout innings against the Americans.

1933
For the second time, Connie Mack begins to dismantle a dynasty he has built
deciding to sell Mickey Cochrane to the Tigers for $100,000 and catcher
Johnny Pasek. Although the A's have won three American League pennants and two
World Series titles, dating back to 1929, with the Great Depression looming,
the Philadelphia owner needs cash in the face of a failing economy. Cochrane
is named Detroit manager.

1936
The Dodgers "sell" Frenchy Bordagaray, Dutch Leonard and Jimmy Jordan to the
Cardinals. The exchange is understood to be a continuation of the September 7
transaction, which brought the Dodgers Tom Winsett, dubbed by Branch Rickey
as the "next Babe Ruth," and Eddie Morgan from the Cards AA farm team.

1940
The Browns purchase pitchers Denny Galehouse and Fritz Ostermueller from
the Red Sox. Galehouse will go 50-58 in 6 seasons in St. Louis

1956
The Tigers once again trade pitcher Virgil Trucks along with Ned Garver,
Gene Host, Wayne Belardi and $20,000 to the A's for Bill Harrington, Jack
Crimian, Eddie Robinson and Jim Finigan.

1957
Al Lopez, who traded Larry Doby when he was managing Cleveland, does it
again in Chicago. The Orioles swap P Ray Moore, Billy Goodman and OF Tito
Francona to the White Sox for Doby, Ps Jack Harshman and Russ Heman, and
INF Jim Marshall.

1958
AL President Will Harridge announces his retirement.

The Giants trade P Ruben Gomez and C Valmy Thomas to the Phils for P Jack
Sanford. Sanford, who slipped in his sophomore year will win 24 games in
1962, including 16 in a row, while leading the Giants to a pennant. The
Phils' Bob Carpenter will later rue, "it was the worst trade I ever made."

The NL reelects Warren Giles to a new 5-year term.

1960
The Indians deal outfielder Harvey Kuenn to the Giants for flycatchers Willie
Kirkland and pitcher Johnny Antonelli. The 1958 American League batting
champ, who hit .308 in his one year with the Tribe, came to Cleveland in
the trade at the beginning of the season which some fans believe started
"the Curse of Rocky Colavito".

1962
On behalf of 300 retired major leaguers who had not been included in this
year's increases, former Yankees shortstop Frank Crosetti and reserve catcher
John Schulte, who played with five teams in his brief career, bring suit to
prevent any increase in pension benefits that fails to include players from
the past. J. Norman Lewis, their attorney, has indicated that many former
stars have also contributed their names and/or money to support the action.

1963
OF Felipe Alou, C Ed Bailey, P Billy Hoeft, and a player to be named are
sent by the Giants to the Braves for C Del Crandall and Ps Bob Shaw and
Bob Hendley. After 40 years, Alou will return to San Francisco to become
the club's manager.

1964
In what is a fine move by the Angels, California unloads P Bo Belinsky to
the Phillies for minor-league P Rudy May and 1B Costen Shockley.

1966
The Senators bring Camilo Pascual, along with Bernie Allen, back to Washington
and send Minnesota P Ron Kline in exchange.

1968
It is a busy day for the Cardinals on the trading block with the team
making deals with the Red Sox and Padres. The Redbirds send infielder Dick
Schofield to Boston in exchange for right-hander Gary Waslewski and also
trade third baseman Ed Spiezio, outfielder Ron Davis, backstop Dan Breeden
and pitching prospect Phil Knuckles to San Diego for right-hander Dave Giusti.

Robert E. Short, Democratic National Committee treasurer, buys the Senators
for $10 million. Jim Lemon will retain 15-20 percent.

The Baseball Rules Committee moves to increase offense with new measures to
lower the pitching mound, shrink the strike zone and enforce rules against
illegal pitches.

1969
In what is rated their best trade ever, the Royals send 3B Joe Foy to the Mets
for OF Amos Otis and P Bob Johnson. Foy will not solve the Mets' 3B problems,
while Otis will spend 14 years in Kansas City, win 3 Gold Gloves, lead the
AL in stolen bases once and become a member of the team's Hall of Fame. Foy
will play just one season in New York hitting a meager .236 in 99 games.

1971
The Cubs trade pitcher Jim Colborn and two other players to the Brewers
for outfielder Jose Cardenal.

You mean he's not the singer? The Reds get P Tom Hall from the Twins for
P Wayne Granger.

1974
In a six player deal, the Mets trade fan-favorite Tug 'Ya Gotta Believe'
McGraw to the Phillies along with outfielders Don Hahn and Dave Schneck in
exchange for outfielder Del Unser, pitcher Mac Scarce and catcher John Sterns.

The Astros trade 1B Lee May and Jay Schlueter to the Orioles for Enos Cabell
and Rob Andrews.

The frustrated White Sox unload controversial Dick Allen to the Braves for
a reported $5,000. Allen never reports and retires instead. Richie Ashburn
will help coax Allen out of retirement and he'll play 2 disappointing
seasons back in Philadelphia before going to Oakland as a free agent.

1980
Don Sutton, 35, the winningest pitcher in Los Angeles Dodgers history,
signs a 4-year contract with the Houston Astros. Sutton was 13-5 in 1980
with a league-leading 2.21 ERA.

Indians outfielder "Super Joe" Charboneau, who hit .289 with 23 HRs and 87
RBIs, is named AL Rookie of the Year.

1988
Two free-agent pitchers sign 3-year contracts, Jesse Orosco with Cleveland
and Dave LaPoint with the Yankees.

1989
Thirty-eight-year-old DH Dave Parker, who had 22 HRs and 97 RBIs for the World
Champion A's, signs with the Brewers as a free agent. As compensation, Oakland
receives Milwaukee's first round draft pick, using it to take Todd Van Poppel,
as well as a compensation pick, selecting another P Kirk Dressendorfer.

1990
NL batting champion Willie McGee signs as a free agent with the Giants,
ending his 3-month stint across the bay with Oakland.

1991
The Dodgers sign free agent P Tom Candiotti to a 4-year contract.

1992
The Mariners sign free agent P Chris Bosio to a 4-year contract.

1993
The Phillies trade World Series goat, closer Mitch Williams, to the Astros
for pitchers Doug Jones and Jeff Juden.

1996
The Marlins sign free agent OF Jim Eisenreich to a 2-year contract.

1997
The Devil Rays sign free agent P Wilson Alvarez to a 5-year contract. They
also sign free agent OF Dave Martinez to a 2-year deal.

2001
Although Enron has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the corporation is
current on its payments and plans to keep the company's name on the Astros'
new ballpark. The downtown stadium will stay Enron Field as long as Enron
continues to exist and makes regular payments on its 30-year $100 million
commitment according to team officials.

The Phillies sign free agent OF Brian Hunter to a 2-year contract.

2002
The Athletics send P Billy Koch and two minor leaguers to the White Sox in
exchange for P Keith Foulke, C Mark Johnson, minor league P Joe Valentine
and cash.

The Dodgers trade 1B Eric Karros, 2B Mark Grudzielanek and cash to the
Cubs. In return, they get C Randy Hundley and OF Chad Hermansen.

2003
Mike Lowell signs a four-year $32 million deal with the Marlins. The All-Star
third baseman's contract, however, reverts to a one-year deal with a player
option for 2005 if the teams fail to secure financing for a new ballpark
by November 1, 2004.

Uncertain of re-signing Kevin Millwood, the Phillies trade righthanded
reliever Carlos Silva, infielder Nick Punto, and a player to be named to
the Twins for southpaw starter Eric Milton. The lefty, who missed most of
last season after knee surgery, should join the starting rotation which
will include Randy Wolf, Vicente Padilla and Brett Myers.

The Cubs sign free agent P LaTroy Hawkins to a 3-year contract.

2004
The Yankees trade P Felix Heredia to the Mets for P Mike Stanton. They also
send OF Kenny Lofton to the Phillies for P Felix Rodriguez.

The San Francisco Chronicle reports that Barry Bonds admitted to the grand
jury that he used a clear substance and a cream that were supplied by Balco
but that he didn't believe they were steroids. Yesterday the Chronicle
reported that Jason Giambi told the grand jury he knowingly took steroids
provided by Bonds' trainer.

2005
In an effort to replace Billy Wagner who joined the Mets as a free agent
earlier in the week, the Phillies sign right-hander Tom Gordon as the team's
closer. The 38-year-old former Yankee set-up man agrees to an $18 million
three-year deal to hurl for the City of Brotherly Love.

2006
The Braves sign free agent P Tanyon Sturtze to a contract.

2007
The Nationals add another young outfield prospect with considerable potential,
but a troubled past as the team acquires Elijah Dukes from the Rays in
exchange for pitching prospect Glenn Gibson. Four days ago the team traded
for Lastings Milledge, who had a tenuous tenure with the Mets.

Dick Williams, who managed in Boston, Oakland, California, Montreal,
San Diego and Seattle, is elected into the Hall of Fame by the Veterans
Committee. Along with Bill McKechnie, another Hall of Famer, the fiery
skipper is the only other manager to appear in the World Series with three
different teams (1967 Red Sox, 1972-73 A's and 1984 Padres).

Billy Southworth, who managed the Cardinals (1929, 1940-45) and the Braves
(1946-51) is elected to the Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee. 'Billy
the Kid' compiled a managerial record of 1,044-704 (.597), including four
World Series appearances and two World Championships during his 13 years
in the dugout.

Baseball pioneer Walter O'Malley is elected to the Hall of Fame by the
veterans committee in the class of executives and managers. The Dodger owner
was vilified in Brooklyn when he moved the beloved 'Bums' to LA after failing
to reach a deal with city officials to keep the franchise in the borough.

Barney Dreyfuss, owner of the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1900 until his death
in 1932, is elected by the Veterans Committee to the Hall of Fame. A German
immigrant, who built Forbes Field, helped to establish the structure for
the first modern World Series in 1903 and played a pivotal role in defusing
the animosity which existed between the American and National Leagues.

2008
Reflecting the worldwide economic crisis, Rogers Communications, owner of
the Blue Jays, announces plans of planned layoffs which includes employees
from the team's sales staff. A decline in advertising revenue is cited as
the reason for the staffing cuts.

After being declined salary arbitration by the Cubs earlier in the week,
Bobby Howry agrees to $2.75M one-year deal with the Giants. The right-handed
reliever will be used as the club's primary setup man.

Dustin Pedroia agrees to a $40.5 million six-year contract extension which
could keep him in a Red Sox uniform through the 2014 season. The 25-year-old
second baseman, who earned only $457,000 last season, has already won the
Rookie of the Year award, an MVP, a Gold Glove and Silver Slugger and a
World championship in his first two years in the major leagues.

2009
Placido Polanco agrees to an $18 million three-year deal with the Phillies,
the club that traded him to Detroit in 2005 to make room for a rookie named
Chase Utley. The 34-year-old Gold Glove second baseman will play third base
filling the position vacated by Pedro Feliz, who became a free agent after
Philadelphia did not pick up his $5.5 million option.

The A's trade right-handed pitcher Jeff Gray, minor league prospects, Matt
Spencer and Ronny Morla to the Cubs in exchange for infielders Jake Fox and
Aaron Miles along with cash considerations. With Fox added to their lineup,
Oakland gets a much-needed power boost from the right side of the plate.

2010
Former major league third baseman Ron Santo dies in an Arizona hospital from
complications of bladder cancer and diabetes. The 70-year-old, considered
one of the best players in Cubs history, rejoined the team in 1990 as the
team's WGN radio announcer, enamoring his listeners with his devotion to
the lovable losers and gaining their admiration for his failure to gain
induction into the Hall of Fame.

2011
Hoping to fill the void created when Jose Molina left as a free-agent to
join the Rays, the Blue Jays acquire veteran backstop Jeff Mathis from
the Angels in exchange for left-hander Brad Mills. Mathis, known for his
defensive skills and for his ability to work with young pitchers, will back
up starting catcher J.P. Arencibia.

2012
At the Winter Meetings in Nashville, MLB announces former Yankee owner Jacob
Ruppert, longtime umpire Hank O'Day, and Deacon White, who made his debut in
1871 as a barehanded catcher, have been elected into the Hall of Fame by the
pre-integration panel. The selection of the trio gives the Cooperstown shrine
exactly 300 members, a number that will not change when the BBWAA does not
select any players next month to be inducted during the ceremonies in July.

2013
Brian McCann agrees to a five-year deal with the Yankees worth $85 million,
the richest contract ever for a catcher acquired in free agency. The
29-year-old All-Star backstop spent his first nine years with the Braves,
providing consistent offense and leadership for the very successful franchise.

2014
The Original League field in Williamsport, the birth place of Little League
Baseball, is placed on the National Register. The site is where the youth
league's founder Carl E. Stotz used newspapers as bases to determine
the appropriate size of an infield for children, a year prior to the
organization's first game in 1939.

