Dec 4

1914
Walter Johnson accepts a $6,000 bonus from the FL Chicago Whales and signs
a three-year contract for $17,500 per year. Clark Griffith threatens to take
Johnson to court, claiming he has paid Johnson for the reserve option in his
contract. AL Prexy Ban Johnson asserts that Johnson was on the market and
is "damaged goods," worth getting rid of. Griffith travels to Coffeyville,
KS, to persuade his franchise player that the option clause is legal and
binding. Two weeks later Griffith signs Johnson for 3 years at $12,500 per
year and returns the bonus to the Feds.

1915
Former Giants owner Andrew Freedman dies at the age of 55. He owned the
team for 7 years, firing a Steinbrennian 16 managers during his reign.

1927
Pirates OF Paul Waner noses out Frankie Frisch for NL MVP honors with 72
points to 66. Rogers Hornsby, Cubs P Charlie Root and Giants SS Travis
Jackson also score high.

1931
Bump Hadley, Jackie Hayes and Sad Sam Jones are traded from Washington to
the White Sox for Carl Reynolds and John Kerr.

1936
The Dodgers trade Lonny Frey to the Cubs for Woody English and Roy Henshaw,
and trade P Ed Brandt to Pittsburgh for Cookie Lavagetto and Ralph Birkofer.

The Boston Bees buy Vince DiMaggio from San Diego (PCL).

1940
Larry MacPhail continues his dealing and gets his catcher. The Dodgers
trade for Mickey Owen, giving C Gus Mancuso, P John Pintar and $85,000 to
the Cardinals.

The Cubs swap SS Bobby Mattick, OF Jim Gleeson and a player to be announced
to the Reds for SS Billy Myers. Myers will split his time between Chicago
and the minors in '41 and quit in 1942 rather than take a pay cut.

1943
In a deal that owner Clark Griffith will recall as one of the worst he
ever made, the Senators sell All-Star Bob Johnson to the Red Sox. The OF
slugger will enjoy two solid seasons with Boston, hitting .302 for the
Fenway Faithful, before retiring at the age of 39.

1946
W. G. Bramham retires as head of the minors. George Trautman will replace him.

The Reds trade pitcher Ed Heusser to Brooklyn for veteran Augie Galan.

1952
Detroit trades P Virgil Trucks, who tossed two no-hitters during the year,
along with P Hal White and OF Johnny Groth, to the Browns in exchange for
2B Owen Friend, OF Bob Nieman and OF/C J.W. Porter.

1957
The major league owners eliminate the bonus rule which was implemented in
1953. The edict required 'bonus babies', who signed a contract for more than
$4,000, to stay on the major league roster for two full seasons, which created
much resentment with teammates and in many instances delayed the development
of talented players. Also, the owners raise the minimum salary to $7,000.

The White Sox send fan-favorite Minnie Minoso and INF Fred Hatfield to the
Indians for P Early Wynn and OF Al Smith. Wynn coming off his 1st losing
season, will rebound with the White Sox, topping the AL in wins and innings
in 1959. The trade was the first for the new Indians GM Frank Lane.

1958
The Dodgers trade Gino Cimoli to the Cardinals in exchange for former Rookie
of the Year Wally Moon and right-hander Phil Paine. The club's new outfielder
will quickly become known for his 'Moon Shots', 250+ foot high fly balls
to left field at the LA's Memorial Coliseum which clear the 40-foot-high
screen for homeruns.

The American Association expands to 10 teams by admitting Houston, Dallas
and Fort Worth from the Texas League. This effectively denudes the Texas
League, leaving it with 5 teams and a vacancy.

1963
The Tigers trade pitcher Jim Bunning to the Phillies for catcher Gus Triandos,
pitcher Jack Hamilton and outfielder Don Demeter. The right-hander will become
the first pitcher since Cy Young to win a hundred games in both leagues.

Cleveland trades OF Willie Kirkland to the Orioles for OF Al Smith and an
estimated $25,000.

1964
Baseball approves a free-agent draft. At their winter meetings in Houston,
the minor league and major league organizations establish a system, basically
like that of professional football, which will take effect in January of
1965 and be held every four months thereafter. Choices will be exercised
by clubs in inverse order of their previous year's standing. Draftees must
be included in their club's 40-man roster or be susceptible to be claimed
at the waiver price the following season.

The majors also restore to the commissioner's office all powers rescinded
after Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis' death in 1944. Principally, they
waive their right to take legal action in the event of disagreements with
the commissioner and grant him authority to judge whether actions taken
by the owners in concert are, automatically "in the best interests of
baseball." Voting for the annual All-Star teams is turned back to the fans.

The Dodgers trade OF Frank Howard, P Phil Ortega, P Pete Richert and 3B
Ken McMullen to the Senators for P Claude Osteen, INF John Kennedy and cash.

Minnesota acquires versatile Cesar Tovar from the Reds for P Jerry
Arrigo. Tovar will play 8 seasons in Minnesota.

1965
Masanori Murakami, 4-1 this year, does not renew his contract with the
Giants, signing instead with the Nankai Hawks of Osaka for $40,000.

1968
The Orioles deal minor league prospect John Mason and veteran outfielder Curt
Blefary to the Astros for Elijah Johnson, Enzo Hernandez and hurler Mike
Cuellar. The right-hander from Cuba will spend eight years with Baltimore
averaging nearly 18 wins a season. Except for the Frank Robinson trade,
this ranks as the best trade for the O's.

The Dodgers trade P Mike Kekich (2-10) to the Yankees for OF Andy Kosco.

The Astros trade 3B Bob Aspromonte, who lost his job to Doug Rader, to
the Braves for INF Marty Martinez. Aspro was the last original Colt 45
on Houston's roster, and when he retires, he will be the last original
Brooklyn Dodger.

1969
The Yankees trade 1B Joe Pepitone to the Astros for 1B Curt Blefary.

The Cubs send OF Boots Day to the Cardinals for P Rich Nye.

The Yankees send veteran P Al Downing and C Frank Fernandez to Oakland for
1B Danny Cater and C Ossie Chavarria.

1973
The Reds trade P Ross Grimsley to the Orioles for OF Merv Rettenmund and
INF Junior Kennedy. Grimsley will win 18 in 1974 for the Orioles.

1974
In a dismal trade for Montreal, the Expos trade OF Ken Singleton and P
Mike Torrez to the Orioles for P Dave McNally, OF Rich Coggins and a minor
league pitcher.

1975
Ted Turner enters a tentative purchase agreement to buy the Atlanta Braves.

1976
Aurelio Rodriguez becomes the first AL 3B since 1959 to beat out Brooks
Robinson for the Gold Glove Award. Other newcomers on TSN fielding team
include 3B Mike Schmidt, OF Dwight Evans and C Jim Sundberg, who would
combine to win 24 awards.

1978
The annual ML draft is held at Orlando, FL. Only 7 players are selected.

1981
Oakland signs free-agent OF-1B Joe Rudi, who hit just .180 in 49 games for
the Red Sox last season, to a 2-year contract.

1988
The Orioles trade veteran 1B Eddie Murray to the Dodgers for pitchers Ken
Howell and Brian Holton and infield prospect Juan Bell.

1990
The Giants sign Yankee free agent Dave Righetti (1-1, 3.57, 36 saves) to
a four-year deal worth nearly $10 million. After the South Bay native's
playing days are over, the left-handed reliever will become the club's
long-time pitching coach. San Francisco now has spent $33 million for free
agents Righetti, Willie McGee, and Bud Black since the end of the season.

1992
The Yankees sign free agent SS Spike Owen to a 3-year contract.

The Astros new owner Drayton McLane Jr signs free agent P Greg Swindell to
a 4-year contract worth $17 million.

1995
The homerun ball Cal Ripken hit on the night he tied Lou Gehrig's record is
sold by Michael Stirn, a 32-year carpenter who caught the historic horsehide,
to a Maryland businessman at an auction for $41,736. The lucky Oriole fan
had offered the ball back to the Baltimore third baseman through the club,
but never received a reply.

1997
The Rockies sign free agent P Darryl Kile to a 3-year contract.

1998
The Mets trade P Willie Blair to the Tigers in exchange for INF Joe Randa.

The Orioles sign free agent 2B Delino DeShields to a 3-year contract.

2000
The Rockies sign free agent P Denny Neagle to a 5-year contract.

The Mariners sign free agent P Jeff Nelson to a 3-year contract.

2001
The Orioles sign free agent OF Marty Cordova to a 3-year contract.

2003
The Expos send P Javier Vazquez to the Yankees, who will sign him next month
to a 4-year $45 million contract. In return, Montreal gets 1B Nick Johnson,
OF Juan Rivera and P Randy Choate from NY.

The Red Sox hire former Philadelphia manager Terry Francona as their new
skipper, replacing the deposed Grady Little.

2005
Reaching a preliminary deal with the Dodgers a day before baseball's winter
meetings, Rafael Furcal agrees to a $39 million three-year contract to
play shortstop in the City of Angels. The 28-year-old Dominican infielder
was also strongly pursued by the Braves, his former team for the past six
seasons, and the Cubs.

2006
The Mariners sign free agent OF Jose Guillen to a contract.

2007
In an unexpected blockbuster trade at the winter meetings, the Tigers
acquire Miguel Cabrera and Dontrelle Willis from the Marlins in exchange
for six prospects. To get the highly touted Fish, Detroit trades southpaw
Andrew Miller, outfielder Cameron Maybin and four other highly regarded
minor leaguers.

The Royals sign heavy-hitting Jose Guillen (.290, 23, 99) to a three-year
$36 million deal. The 31-year-outfielder, who played with the Mariners last
season which choose to decline its $9 million option for him, reportedly,
according to the San Francisco Chronicle, allegedly purchased nearly $20,000
worth of banned substances from 2003-05.

Needing nine votes from the 12-member executives/pioneers committee, Bowie
Kuhn receives 10 and is voted into the Hall of Fame. Kuhn, who served from
1969 through 1984 bests his nemesis, Marvin Miller, executive director of
the players' union (1966-1983), who only garnered three votes in his bid
for Cooperstown.

2009
The Brewers sign free-agent Gregg Zaun (.260, 8, 27) to a $2.15 million
one-year deal. The 38-year-old catcher, who played with Baltimore and Tampa
Bay last season, will replace Jason Kendall behind the plate for Milwaukee.

"Oh, my!", Dick Enberg is signed to a three-year contract by the Padres to
do play-by-play for 110 to 120 televised games per season. The soon-to-be
seventy-five-year-old, known as a great story teller, hasn't called a game
in more than two decades.

San Diego names Jason McLeod as the team's assistant general manager. The
former Red Sox director of amateur scouting is hired by the team's new
GM Jed Hoyer, who also comes from Boston and served in the same capacity
working as Theo Epstein's assistant before joining the club.

2011
Eight months after leaving the sport rather than face a 100-game ban due to
failing a drug test, Manny Ramirez applies for reinstatement from baseball's
retired list. In a statement released by MLB, the 39-year-old veteran would
have to serve a 50-game suspension that would begin with the first game he
is eligible to play as a condition of resuming his big league career.

2012
Longtime Philadelphia scribe Paul Hagen is selected by the Baseball Writers'
Association of America as the recipient of the annual J.G. Taylor Spink Award,
an honor that recognizes a lifetime of excellence in baseball writing. The
MLB.com reporter was nominated along with retirees Jim Hawkins of the
Detroit Free Press and Russell Schneider of the Cleveland Plain Dealer.

2014
At a Safeco Field news conference, the Mariners announce that the team
has signed free-agent Nelson Cruz to a four-year $58-million deal. Seattle
acquired the right-handed slugging outfielder, who lead the big leagues with
40 homeruns last season while playing for the Orioles, to bat behind Robinson
Cano, giving the switch-hitting second baseman more protection in the lineup.

2015
The Red Sox announce the team has signed southpaw David Price to a seven-year
$217-million contract, the largest deal even given to a pitcher. The
29-year-old left-hander, who posted an 18-5 record hurling for the Tigers
and Blue Jays last season, is projected to be the ace of a talented rotation
that includes Wade Miley, Clay Buchholz and Rick Porcello.

