Dec 5

1922
Connie Mack spends money to begin building another winner. He sends $40,000
and several players to Portland (Pacific Coast League) for 3B Sammy Hale.

1926
Cardinals C Bob O'Farrell is named NL MVP. O'Farrell caught 146 games and
batted .293. He polls 79 points. Reds 2B Hughie Critz is runner-up with
60. Critz set a ML record handling 588 assists, which will be topped by
Frankie Frisch with 643 in 1927.

1927
The National Board of Arbitration rules the Texas League cannot place teams
in Tulsa and Oklahoma City without permission of the Western League, which
now operates in those cities. This landmark decision establishes league
property rights in the cities of each circuit.

In an attempt to combat "chain store" baseball, the American Association
votes to bar further ownership of its clubs by the ML clubs.

1950
Mel Ott leaves the Giants organization signing a two-year pact to manage
the Pacific Coast League's Oakland club. 'Marvelous Mel' will be replacing
Charlie Dressen.

1952
Figures reveal an eleven percent drop in attendance at major league games
during the previous season.

1955
Carl Stotz announces his plans to organize a rival Little League of his own.

The Cardinals buy 41-year-old Ellis Kinder from the Bosox. He will team up
with the like-aged Walker Cooper to form just the second 40+ battery. Curt
Davis and Clyde Sukeforth, in 1945, are the other duo. During his eight
seasons in Boston, Kinder posted a 86-52 record with an earned run average
of 3.28.

1957
The minor leagues threaten to sue ML baseball if it televises Sunday games
in their territory.

The AL purchases a $1.8 million group accident policy to help clubs buy
new players in case of a major disaster.

The Cubs send veteran Bob Rush and 2 players to the Braves for C Sammy
Taylor and P Taylor Phillips.

The Cards turn down the Phillies offer of Richie Ashburn and Harvey Haddix
for Ken Boyer, trusting that Boyer will turn into a good 3B. Then, in one
of their best trades ever, the Cardinals acquire outfielders Curt Flood
and Joe Taylor from the Reds for pitchers Marty Kutyna and Ted Wieand. The
19-year-old Flood, who appeared in 8 games for Cincinnati over the past 2
seasons, will anchor the St. Louis OF for the next 12 years.

1958
The Phillies, hoping to fill the National League void in the Big Apple
caused by the departure of the Giants and Dodgers to the west coast, drop any
plans for 1959 broadcasts into New York City after the Yankees threaten to
air Bronx Bombers contests in Philadelphia. The Cards and Pirates follow suit.

1959
Representing ML baseball, the Yankees' Yogi Berra visits Italy to present
baseball equipment and aid in the sports development.

The Phils ship Chico Fernandez and Ray Semproch to Detroit for Ken Walters,
Ted Lepcio and minor leaguer Alex Cosmidis. The Cuban-born Fernandez was the
first black for the Phils, and will be the second black to play for Detroit.

1960
President Joe Cronin suggests that if the NL starts its new New York franchise
in 1961, the AL will stay out of Los Angeles until 1962. The NL turned down
the suggested compromise of November 22nd because Houston will not be ready
in 1961.

1966
Bill DeWitt sells the Reds to a group of Cincinnati investors, headed by
Francis Dale, for an estimated $7 million. In two weeks, they hire Bob
Howsam away from the Cardinals to be GM.

1967
Stan Musial resigns as GM of the Cardinals and is replaced by Bing
Devine. Musial remains a senior veep.

1969
Chub Feeney succeeds Warren Giles as president of the NL. He is elected
for a 4-year term beginning January 1, 1970.

1973
The Dodgers trade outfielder Willie Davis to Montreal for Mike Marshall. The
reliever will win the Cy Young Award for LA next season, and Davis has a
solid season, batting .295, in his one season with the Expos.

The Cubs' plan to trade their veteran third baseman Ron Santo is thwarted
when he becomes the first player to invoke the new 10 and 5 rule. The team
wanted to send their 33-year-old infielder to the Angels for two pitchers,
but his 10+ years in the major leagues with 5+ being in Chicago gave him
the right to veto the deal.

1975
After an 11-year absence, Yogi Berra returns to the Yankees as a coach. In
October of 1964, after piloting the club to a 99-63 record and the American
League pennant, the first-year manager was fired unexpectedly.

1977
The White Sox trade C Brian Downing and Ps Chris Knapp and Dave Frost to the
Angels for OFs Bobby Bonds and Thad Bosley, and minor league P Rich Dotson.

1978
After sixteen years with the Reds, Pete Rose signs a four-year $3.2 million
deal with the Phillies. Other teams which pursued 'Charlie Hustle' included
the Mets, Braves, Pirates and the Royals.

A week after Sparky Anderson leaves the Reds, free agent Pete Rose signs
a 4-year $3.2 million contract with the Phillies, temporarily making him
the highest-paid athlete in team sports.

1979
A month after being acquired by the Blue Jays, Chris Chambliss goes to
the Atlanta Braves with Luis Gomez for Barry Bonnell, Pat Rockett and Joey
McLaughlin. Chambliss will play 8 seasons for the Braves.

1983
The Phillies trade veteran 1B Tony Perez to Cincinnati for a player to be
named later.

1984
It's a busy day for the Yankees as the Bronx Bombers obtain base-stealing
outfielder Rickey Henderson and pitcher Bert Bradley from the A's in
exchange for pitchers Jay Howell and Jose Rijo, outfielder Stan Javier,
and minor leaguers Tim Birtsas and Eric Plunk. They also trade catcher Rick
Cerone to the Braves for pitcher Brian Fisher.

1987
The Tigers swap pitcher Dan Petry to the Angels for center fielder Gary
Pettis.

1988
Not the best trade the Cubs have ever made. The Cubs and Rangers complete
a 9-player swap, with Chicago giving up OF Rafael Palmeiro, P Jamie Moyer
and P Drew Hall in exchange for IF Curtis Wilkerson and Ps Mitch Williams,
Paul Kilgus and Steve Wilson, and a pair of minor leaguers to be named.

1990
The Blue Jays trade first baseman Fred McGriff and shortstop Tony Fernandez
to the Padres for second baseman Roberto Alomar and outfielder Joe Carter.

Free-agent OF Vince Coleman signs a 4-year contract with the Mets. He has
led the NL in stolen bases each of the last 6 seasons, and this year (June
3rd) copped his 500th theft in his 804th game, the quickest player to reach
that plateau.

1992
The Twins trade P David West to the Phillies in exchange for P Mike Hartley.

The Dodgers sign free agent OF Cory Snyder to a 2-year contract.

1994
It is announced that Richard Ravitch will step down as negotiator for the
owners on December 31. He resigns tomorrow.

The Rangers sign free agent C Dave Valle to a 2-year contract.

1995
The Angels sign free agent 3B Tim Wallach.

The Twins bring back free agent DH Paul Molitor.

1996
The new collective bargaining agreement is unanimously approved by the
player association executive committee clearing the path for interleague
play and guaranteeing no work stoppages until 2001.

Two days after signing C Joe Girardi, the Yankees send back-up C Jim
Leyritz to the Angels in exchange for minor leaguers Ryan Kane and Jeremy
Blevins. Leyritz, the Yankee with the longest tenure - 5 years 126 days -
was vulnerable because of his $1.75 million yearly contract.

Following his most productive season with the Oakland A's, Terry Steinbach
elects to take less money and return home. Like Dave Winfield, Paul Molitor
and Jack Morris before him, the Minnesota veteran signs with the Twins.

1998
The Orioles sign free agent 1B Will Clark to a 2-year contract.

1999
Major league baseball and ESPN agree to settle their lawsuit by signing
a new 6-year $800 million deal. The suit involves ESPN's decision to give
NFL football games priority over late-season Sunday night baseball games
on its main channel.

2001
New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani announces he wants to complete new
stadium deals for the Mets and Yankees before he leaves office at the end
of the month. Before the September 11 attacks, which dramatically changed
the city's financial stature, the mayor thought an arrangement in which
the city, the state and the owners agree to pay one-third of the cost of
the new stadiums might complete the negotiations with the teams.

2006
The Rockies agree to a 1-year contract with free agent P LaTroy Hawkins.

The Red Sox reach a tentative agreement on a 5-year contract with brittle
free agent OF J.D. Drew and a 4-year contract with SS Julio Lugo.

2009
After trying seven shortstops since Normar Garciaparra was traded to the
Cubs during the 2004 season, the Red Sox give Marco Scutaro an opportunity
to play the position, inking the 34-year-old infielder to a two-year deal
with a club option for 2012. The free-agent, who hit a career-best .282
along with 12 homers and 60 RBIs for Toronto last season, will replace Alex
Gonzalez, who left the Red Sox after Boston declined his $6 million option
and recently signed with the Blue Jays.

2011
Ron Santo is elected to the Hall of Fame posthumously by the Golden Era
Committee, receiving 15 of its possible 16 votes. The former Cubs third
baseman, who played in the 1960s and early '70s, compiled a .277 lifetime
batting average, won five Gold Gloves and was a member of nine All-Star
teams during his 15-year tenure in Chicago, including a season on the South
Side with the White Sox.

ESPN hires Terry Francona, fired as the Red Sox manager, to be the analyst
for its signature Sunday Night games and to be a contributor on other studio
shows including SportsCenter. The former skipper will be replacing Bobby
Valentine, who was recently hired to replace him in the Boston dugout.

2015
The organ, played by the legendary Nancy Faust who entertained fans at both
the Old Comiskey Park and the U.S. Cellular Field for more than 3,000 White
Sox home games over 41 seasons, is purchased by Red Sox organist Josh Kantor,
who grow up in Chicago listening to her renditions of Na Na Hey Hey Goodbye
and Take Me Out to the Ballgame. The iconic instrument was put up for bid by
the team during their annual holiday charity auction at U.S. Cellular Field.

