Dec 6

1913
Exhibition teams made up of White Sox and Giants players make a Tokyo stop as
part of their world tour and play each other at Keio University Stadium. The
Sox win, 9-4. Tomorrow, a combined team defeats Keio University, 16-3, then
the White Sox beat the Giants again, 12-9. Nearly a decade will pass before
American professionals again play in Japan; Herb Hunter will take a team of
"all stars" to Japan in 1920 and 1922.

1914
Indoor baseball is a winter fad in some cities. In Chicago, $2,000 is
raised at an indoor game for the benefit of the family of Jimmy Doyle,
deceased former Chicago 3B.

1920
A 5-year-old lawsuit that awarded $264,000 damages to the Baltimore
Federal League club on April 12, 1919, is reversed by a court of appeals,
which upholds the reserve clause and holds that baseball is not interstate
commerce nor subject to antitrust laws. The original was initiated because
the Baltimore Feds were not included in the settlement of the Federal
League war. They wanted a ML team in Baltimore and did not get it. This
ruling will be upheld in 1922 by the U.S. Supreme Court headed by Chief
Justice William Howard Taft, brother of Cubs former owner, Charles Taft.

1921
John McGraw finally gets Heinie Groh from the Reds; it costs him C Mike
Gonzales, OF George Burns and a reported $250,000. Other figures range as
low as $100,000.

1923
While in Paris, John McGraw announces plans for a tour of Europe by the
Giants and White Sox in 1924, as world interest in baseball grows. In Romania,
Queen Marie will throw out the first ball to mark the game's debut in July.

1937
It is announced that Ford Frick has been reelected president of the NL for
3 years.

1938
In a trade of major names, the Giants send Dick Bartell, Hank Lieber and
Gus Mancuso to the Cubs for Billy Jurges, Frank Demaree and Ken O'Dea. The
trade works best for the Giants as the New York-born Jurges will anchor
the infield for 7 years; Chicago-born Bartell lasts just a season at Wrigley.

Larry MacPhail ends an agreement with the Yankees and Giants to ban
broadcasts in the New York area and sells the radio rights of the Dodgers
games to Wheaties.

1939
In a trade of veteran shortstops - or "worn-out shortstops," as one newspaper
described it - the Cubs acquire Billy Rogell from the Detroit Tigers for Dick
Bartell. Rogell, who injured his arm playing handball the previous year,
will hit just .136 before hanging up his spikes. The Tigers will release
"Rowdy Richard" 5 games into the 1941 season, but he will stick with the
Giants until 1946.

The Bees are busy clearing their pitching staff. Jim Turner goes to the Reds
for 1B Les Scarsella and cash, while Johnny Lanning is sent to Pittsburgh
for P Jim Tobin and cash. On December 8th, P Danny MacFayden joins Tobin
in a trade for P Bill Swift.

1941
The Giants select Mel Ott to replace Bill Terry as the team's skipper. The
new manager spent all of his 22 years in the majors with the franchise
hitting 511 homeruns during his Hall of Fame career.

1946
The major leagues finally accept the contention that invasion of minor
league territory will result in compensation for the entire league. The
major league clubs agree to return the selection of the All-Star teams,
except for pitchers, to a fan ballot.

1952
In an effort to curb interleague trading after June 15th, the American
League approves a two-league waiver rule.

At the 1952 meetings a new bonus rule is approved, replacing the one that
was instituted in 1946 and repealed in 1950. This new rule sets the bonus
limit at $4,000 or the player could be lost through the draft. "Under
the rule adopted, a bonus player is any free agent with less than 90 days
professional experience, who signs for more than $4,000 with a major league
club ($5,000 if the player is retained in the majors), $4,000 by minor clubs
higher than Class B and $3,000 by B, C, and D. A bonus player in the minors
must pass through a draft period before he can be transferred in any manner,
except by outright release, and a major bonus player must be retained for
two years, unless waivers are asked for his unconditional release." Such
waivers are irrevocable. This second bonus rule lasts until abolished at
the 1957 winter meeting in Colorado Springs.

1954
The Tigers trade first baseman Walt Dropo, outfielder Bob Nieman and pitcher
Ted Gray to the White Sox in exchange for Ferris Fain and Jack Phillips.

The Orioles conclude their 2nd large trade in 3 weeks sending C Clint
Courtney, SS Jim Brideweser and P Bob Chakales to the White Sox for C Matt
Batts, INF Freddie Marsh and Ps Don Johnson and Don Ferrarese. Courtney
batted .270 in 397 at-bats, and struck out an AL-low 7 times, the league's
lowest since Joe Sewell hung up his spikes in 1933.

1955
Brooklyn trades 3B Don Hoak and OF Walt Moryn to the Cubs for 3B Ransom
Jackson.

1958
The Senators give walking papers to 3B Eddie Yost, sending him to Detroit
along with Rocky Bridges and OF Neil Chrisley. The Nats receive infielders
Reno Bertoia and Ron Samford, and OF Jim Delsing in exchange.

1959
The Reds trade Frank Thomas to the Cubs in exchange for reliever Bill
Henry. The deal, which also includes Lou Jackson and Lee Walls coming to
Cincinnati, gives the team a southpaw out off the bullpen who will save 17
games for the eventual world champions in the upcoming season.

The White Sox reacquire Minnie Minoso, along with C Dick Brown and pitchers
Jake Striker and Don Ferrarese from the Indians. They give up young 1B Norm
Cash, OF Bubba Phillips and C Johnny Romano.

1960
The new Los Angeles American League franchise is awarded to cowboy movie
star Gene Autry and former football player Bob Reynolds. Fred Haney will be
GM. Charles O. Finley withdraws his bid for Los Angeles and offers to purchase
control of the Kansas City Athletics. After four seasons of playing at Dodger
Stadium, the team will move to Anaheim, a short distance from L.A., and will
be known as the California Angels (1965-1996), the Anaheim Angels (1997-2004)
and then, to better market the team, the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.

1965
Baltimore sends OF Jackie Brandt and P Darold Knowles to the Phillies for
P Jack Baldschun.

1968
William Eckert, sometimes refer to as the 'Unknown Solider', resigns as
baseball commissioner. The former U.S. Air Force lieutenant general who
served as the game's fourth commissioner from 1965-68, will be replaced by
Bowie Kuhn.

1971
The Reds trade P Milt Wilcox to the Indians for OF Ted Uhlaender. Uhlaender
had 13 homers the past 2 seasons, and all but one came in Cleveland. He'll
hit none in Cincinnati.

1973
The Dodgers trade pitcher Claude Osteen and Dave Culpepper to the Astros
for outfielder Jim Wynn.

1976
The Brewers trade first baseman George Scott and outfielder Bernie Carbo to
the Red Sox for Cecil Cooper. Cooper will become a dominant player during
the early eighties appearing in five All-Star games batting over .300 in
the first seven of his eleven years with Milwaukee.

1979
In one of their better trades, the Royals acquire 1B Willie Aikens and
INF Rance Mulliniks from the Angels for OF Al Cowens, Todd Cruz and Craig
Eaton. Aikens will have 4 solid years in KC, including two 2-homer games
in the World Series.

1982
The Red Sox trade 3B Carney Lansford, OF Garry Hancock and minor leaguer Jerry
King to Oakland for OF Tony Armas and C Jeff Newman. Lansford, who led the
AL in hitting in '81, is expendable with the emergence of Wade Boggs at 3B.

Kenneth Moffett, who helped mediate the 1981 baseball strike settlement,
is named to succeed Marvin Miller as executive director of the ML Baseball
Players' Association.

1983
The Pirates trade OF Mike Easler to the Red Sox for lefthanded starter
John Tudor.

1984
The White Sox trade 1983 AL Cy Young Award winner LaMarr Hoyt and 2 minor
leaguers to the Padres for P Tim Lollar, IF-OF Luis Salazar and minor
leaguers Ozzie Guillen and Bill Long. SS Guillen will win the AL Rookie
of the Year Award next season and hold down the Sox shortstop spot till
the end of the 1990s. Workhorse Hoyt will be out of baseball in two years,
amidst rumors of drug use.

1988
The Rangers complete their 2nd major trade in as many days, sending 1B
Pete O'Brien, OF Oddibe McDowell and 2B Jerry Browne to Cleveland for 2B
Julio Franco.

The Expos and Phillies complete a trade, P Kevin Gross to Montreal for
pitchers Jeff Parrett and Floyd Youmans.

The A's sign free agent pitcher Mike Moore from the Mariners. Seattle
receives the A's first round pick as compensation, and will use it to select
P Scott Burrell.

1989
The Mets and Reds swap relievers. Randy Myers goes to Cincinnati and fellow
closer John Franco will finish games in New York.

Free-agent closer Jeff Reardon signs with the Red Sox. While in Boston,
'The Terminator', who will save 88 games during his three years with the
team, becomes the all-time save leader with 342, breaking Rollie Fingers'
previous record.

Joe Carter and Fred Lynn are sent by Cleveland to San Diego for Sandy Alomar,
Carlos Baerga and Chris James

1990
Free agent George Bell signs with the Cubs.

Fifteen more players become "free look" free agents as part of the settlement
of the most recent collusion case against the owners. It will also cost
the clubs a whopping $280 million in damages.

At Leland's auction house in New York City, Shoeless Joe Jackson's signature
is sold for $23,100, the most money ever paid for a 19th or 20th century
signature. Jackson, who could not read or write, copied the signature from
one written out by his wife. The signature, which was resold within hours,
was cut from an unknown document.

1991
The Brewers obtain P Jesse Orosco from the Indians in exchange for a player
to be named.

1992
The Yankees trade 1B J.T. Snow and Ps Russ Springer and Jerry Nielsen to
the Angels in exchange for P Jim Abbott.

1996
The Seattle Mariners acquire righty Scott Sanders (9-5, 3.38 ERA) from the
Padres for left-handed Sterling Hitchcock. Hitchcock was the ace of the
Mariner staff after Randy Johnson went down with back surgery. He finished
with a 13-9 record, but had a 5.35 ERA.

1997
The Devil Rays start selling individual tickets to the general public for
the team's inaugural season. The Opening Day game will sell out in 17 minutes.

2000
The Dodgers sign free agent P Andy Ashby to a 3-year contract.

2001
Bud Selig tells the House Judiciary Committee that baseball owners, due
to the current system, cannot be competitive and are losing money. The
commissioner uses many statistics to make his case including a team without
a payroll in the top 25 percent has failed to win a single World Series
game over the last seven years.

Major league baseball reportedly gives John Henry permission to sell the
Florida Marlins to Montreal Expos owner, Jeffrey Loria. The Expos are
expected to be either contracted or taken over by Major League Baseball,
which would buy the team from Loria in case contraction is aborted, leaving
him an opportunity to own the Marlins.

2002
The MLB Players Association agrees to allow the Expos to play 22 of its
home games in Puerto Rico. In an effort to increase overall attendance,
the team will play three homestands at San Juan's Hiram Bithorn Stadium,
but still will host 59 contests at Olympic Stadium in Montreal.

In a sinister move, the Yankees offer the same two-year $4.6 million contract
to three lefty relievers - Mike Stanton, Mark Guthrie and Chris Hammond -
and give each 15 minutes to decide. Hammond, 37, signs for $4.8 million over
2 years. Hammond, out of baseball for 2 years, had a remarkable season,
posting a .095 ERA in 63 games and did not allow an earned run after June
28. He is the 3rd pitcher since 1900 to post a sub-one ERA while pitching
70+ innings. The veteran Stanton doesn't bother to respond to the step-child
treatment and, preferring to remain in the New York area, will sign a 3-year
contract with the Mets in a week.

The Indians send C Einar Diaz and P Ryan Drese to the Rangers in exchange
for P Aaron Myette and 1B Travis Hafner. Indians GM Mark Shapiro denies
that the trade is "Jim Thome-motivated." In his last 4 minor league seasons,
Hafner has averaged .316, 23 homers and 93 RBIs.

2004
The Mets and Royals exchange right-handers with starter Brian Bannister going
to Kansas City and reliever Ambiorix Burgos heading for the Big Apple. The
son of former major league southpaw Floyd Bannister will place third in
the AL Rookie of the Year voting earning nine victories for the last-place
club, and the 23-year-old Dominican will appear in only 17 games for New
York being derailed by injuries and off-the-field incidents.

Baseball officials report that they are closer to an agreement on
a drug-testing program that will incorporate more tests, and stiffer
penalties. Donald Fehr says he expects the plan to be in place by spring
training.

2005
At the Winter Meetings, the Blue Jays continue to keep their wallets open
as the team agrees to a five-year $55 million deal with A.J. Burnett (12-12,
3.44). The signing of the Marlin free agent who many consider the best starter
available on the market, comes on the heels of Toronto giving B.J. Ryan $47
million over five-years making it the richest contract in baseball history.

Filling a two month managerial void, the Dodgers hire Grady Little as the
team's skipper. The former Red Sox manager, who compiled an outstanding
188-136 (.580) record in two seasons in Boston in 2002-03, is best remembered
for not pulling a tiring Pedro Martinez during the eighth inning of the
ill-fated game 7 of the 2003 ALCS.

Trevor Hoffman agrees to stay with the Padres, signing a $13.5 million
two-year contract which includes an option for 2008. The Tigers had courted
the veteran closer, but couldn't close its deal when San Diego improved the
club's offer for the second year and made the accomplishments triggering
the option year a bit easier to reach.

2006
The Mets send P Brian Bannister to the Royals in exchange for P Ambiorix
Burgos.

The Dodgers agree to a 1-year contract with free agent C Mike Lieberthal.

The Giants sign free agent C Bengie Molina to a 3-year deal.

The Indians sign free agent P Joe Borowski to a contract.

The Athletics agree to a 2-year deal with free agent P Alan Embree.

The Phillies obtain P Freddy Garcia from the White Sox in exchange for Ps
Gavin Floyd and Gio Gonzalez.

2007
The Dodgers and Andruw Jones (.222, 26, 94) reach a preliminary agreement
on a $36.2 million two-year deal, the fifth-highest average salary in the
major leagues. The 30-year-old center fielder from Willemstad, Netherlands
Antilles, has won ten consecutive Gold Gloves, but suffered through one of
the worst offensive seasons in his 12 years of playing with the Braves.

2010
The Red Sox complete their deal for Adrian Gonzalez by sending minor
league right-hander Casey Kelly, first baseman Anthony Rizzo, outfielder
Reymond Fuentes and a player to be named to San Diego for the All-Star
first baseman. The left-handed slugger, who is expected to take advantage
of the Green Monster's close proximity to home plate, is entering the last
year of his contract, and the deal does not include a contract extension
to stay in Boston.

A trade between two last-place teams sends Arizona slugger Mark Reynolds
to the Orioles in exchange for right-handed relievers David Hernandez and
Kam Mickolio. The O's new third baseman will bring much needed offense to
Baltimore and San Diego's acquisition of the young pitchers will strengthen
the team's bullpen for the late innings.

2011
During baseball's winter meetings, the White Sox trade closer Sergio
Santos to the Blue Jays in exchange for Nestor Molina, a 22-year-old
right-handed prospect with a 27-7 minor league won-loss record and a 2.21 ERA
overall. Toronto's new reliever, who recorded 30 saves in 36 opportunities
with Chicago last season, will be an upgrade for the club whose top closer
in 2011 only recorded 17 saves.

The Baseball Writers' Association of America select Bob Elliott as
the recipient of the 2012 J.G. Taylor Spink Award for his "meritorious
contributions to baseball writing". The Canadian writer, who has practiced
his craft for the last 30 years, covered both the Expos and Blue Jays and
is presently a columnist for the Toronto Sun.

