Dec 7

1914
Chief Bender signs a 2-year deal with the Federal League; he will be assigned
to Baltimore.

1937
Five of baseball's pioneers are added to the Hall of Fame:  Connie Mack,
John McGraw, Morgan G. Bulkeley, Ban Johnson and George Wright.

The NL extends permission for night baseball but the AL refuses to permit
arc light games.

The Red Sox acquire the contract of 19-year-old Ted Williams from San Diego
(PCL), but he will not report to Boston until 1939.

1939
At the urging of Senator owner Clark Griffith, the other American League
owners enact a rule prohibiting the league's pennant winner from buying,
selling or trading players during the following season. The winter meeting
decision appears to have the desired effect as the Yankees finish in
third place.

Lou Gehrig, age 36, is unanimously elected to Baseball's Hall of Fame,
the sole choice this year. The five-year waiting period is waived for the
Iron Horse who played in his last major league game on June 30 this season.

1946
The Indians send young OF Gene Woodling to Pittsburgh for veteran receiver Al
Lopez. Lopez will play just 61 games in 1947, before taking over as manager
of Indianapolis for 3 seasons. He will return to skipper the Indians in 1951.

1949
After ten years in pinstripes, Charlie "King Kong" Keller is released by
the Yankees. He'll sign for a season in Detroit.

1957
The AP votes Tony Kubek (.297, 3, 39) of the Yanks as the Rookie of the
Year. Frank Malzone (.292, 15, 103) of the Red Sox, who was declared
ineligible, receives one vote. Malzone, with better offensive numbers,
will later claim that he was robbed by New York writers, when the BBWA
changes the minimum number of at-bats during the season, thus excluding
the 27-year-old Gold Glove third baseman.

1959
AL umpires Bill Summers and Ed Rommel retire.

1960
Detroit trades 2B Frank Bolling and a player to be named later (OF Neil
Chrisley) to Milwaukee for OF Bill Bruton, 2B Chuck Cottier, C Dick Brown
and P Terry Fox.

1962
Tom Tresh, the Yankees shortstop and left fielder is selected as the
American League's Rookie of the Year by the BBWAA. The 24-year-old son of
former major league catcher Mike Tresh gets 13 of the 20 votes cast by the
writers, with Bob Rodgers (4), Dean Chance (1), Dick Radatz (1) and Bernie
Allen (1) also receiving consideration.

J. G. Taylor Spink, longtime publisher of The Sporting News, dies at age
74 in St. Louis.

1966
Dick Ellsworth is traded by the Cubs to the Phillies for right-hander Ray
Culp and cash. During his eight-year tenure in Chicago, the southpaw,
who had both a 22-win (1963) and a 22-loss (1966) season for the club,
compiled 84 victories, the most by a North-side hurler during the decade.

1967
The Yankees trade C Bob Tillman and P Dale Roberts to the Braves for minor
leaguer Bobby Cox.

1973
The Giants sell future Hall of Fame pitcher Juan Marichal to the Red Sox. The
high leg-kicking right-handed Dominican will post a 5-1 record for Boston.

The Royals deal outfielder Lou Piniella and pitcher Ken Wright to the Yankees
for veteran pitcher Lindy McDaniel. The controversial trade draws the Kansas
City fans' ire, and rightfully so, when the 38-year-old right-hander wins
only a total of six games during his two years with the club. Piniella
enjoys 11 solid seasons in the Bronx batting .295 and playing a major role
in New York's four appearances in the World Series.

In a continuing housecleaning of hometown heroes, the Giants sell future
Hall of Famer Juan Marichal to the Red Sox.

1977
In a swap that helps Baltimore, the Orioles trade Ps Rudy May, Randy
Miller and Bryn Smith to the Expos for Ps Don Stanhouse, Joe Kerrigan and
OF Gary Roenicke.

1978
The Red Sox trade P Bill Lee to the Expos for IF Stan Papi.

1979
The Cardinals trade OF Jerry Mumphrey and P John Denny to the Indians for
OF Bobby Bonds.

The Tigers swap OF Ron LeFlore to the Expos for P Dan Schatzeder.

1983
In a complicated 3-team swap, pitcher Scott Sanderson is traded from the
Expos to the Cubs. Montreal receives pitcher Gary Lucas from San Diego,
and the Padres get P Craig Lefferts, 1B-OF Carmelo Martinez and 3B Fritzie
Connally from Chicago.

The Mariners trade 2B Tony Bernazard to the Indians for OF Gorman Thomas
and IF Jack Perconte.

The Reds sign their first major free agent:  OF Dave Parker, who accepts
a 2-year contract.

The Royals trade P Mike Armstrong and minor league C Duane Dewey to the
Yankees for slugger Steve Balboni and P Roger Erickson.

1984
In a straight trade, the Mets send P Walt Terrell to the Detroit Tigers for
3B Howard Johnson. Hojo will start for 8 years in New York. Terrell will
have 6 seasons in Detroit, interrupted by stays with 4 other teams. Johnson
will spend nine years with the club and will return to the organization to
become a minor league manager and big league coach.

1987
Free-agent OF Bob Dernier, who hit a career-high .317 with 31 stolen bases
for the Cubs last season, signs a one-year contract with his original ML
club, the Phillies.

1988
The Mets deal Wally Backman along with prospect Mike Santiago to the Twins
for minor leaguers Jeff Bumgarner, Steve Gasser and Toby Nivens. The trade
leaves second base open for Gregg Jefferies, but the highly touted rookie
infielder will falter, hitting a meager .258 next season.

The Rangers sign free-agent pitcher Nolan Ryan to a one-year contract.

1989
Storm Davis, 19-7 for the A's last season, signs as a free agent with the
Royals. Other free-agent signees include Craig Lefferts (San Diego), Pete
O'Brien (Seattle), Oil Can Boyd (Montreal) and Keith Hernandez (Cleveland).

1992
The Reds sign free-agent outfielder Roberto Kelly to a three-year deal. The
28-year-old All-Star outfielder will play solid baseball for his new team,
compiling a .313 batting average in 125 games in Cincinnati, before being
traded to Atlanta during the season in 1994 for Deion Sanders.

Owners vote to reopen the collective bargaining agreement with the players.

The Blue Jays sign free agent DH-1B Paul Molitor.

The Reds sign free agent OF Roberto Kelly to a 3-year contract.

1994
The Cardinals trade 2B Luis Alicea to the Red Sox in exchange for P Nate
Minchey and minor league OF Jeff McNeely.

1995
The Yankees obtain 1B Tino Martinez, P Jeff Nelson and minor league P Jim
Mecir from the Mariners in exchange for P Sterling Hitchcock and 3B Russ
Davis. In a memorable day, Martinez signs a 5-year $20.25 million contract,
and his wife gives birth to their 3rd child.

The Red Sox sign free agent OF-DH Jose Canseco to a 2-year contract.

1998
The Diamondbacks lure Padres free agent OF Steve Finley with a 4-year
contract.

The Cubs sign free agent 3B Gary Gaetti, free agent OF Glenallen Hill,
and tomorrow sign free agent C Benito Santiago. Following a car crash last
January where he suffered mangled ligaments in his right knee, Santiago
played just 15 games in 1998 for the Blue Jays. In his last appearance at
Wrigley Field, in 1996, Santiago hit 3 consecutive homeruns.

1999
The Mariners sign Mets free-agent first baseman John Olerud to a 20-million
three-year deal. The former Washington State University All-American will
garner a Gold Glove in each of his three seasons in Seattle, and he will
play a pivotal role in the team's historic 116-46 campaign in 2001 compiling
a .401 on-base percentage.

2000
The Red Sox sign free agent P Frank Castillo to a 2-year contract.

2001
In a rare deal between the cross-town rivals, the Yankees trade outfielder/DH
David Justice (.241, 18, 51) to the Mets for third baseman Robin Ventura
(.237, 21, 61). The teams have exchanged players only six times in forty
years with the last time being in 1992 when the Mets dealt Frank Tanana
for Kenny Greer, a minor league pitcher.

Figures released by major league baseball show that the Milwaukee Brewers
were baseball's most profitable club, after revenue sharing, in 2001. Without
revenue sharing, the Brewers were the fourth-most profitable team.

The Blue Jays trade closer Billy Koch to the A's. In return, Toronto gets
minor league 3B Eric Hinske and minor league P Justin Miller.

The Orioles sign free agent OF Brady Anderson to a 1-year contract.

2002
The Giants sign free agent 2B Ray Durham to a 3-year contract.

2003
The Giants sign free agent OF Michael Tucker to a 2-year contract.

2004
The Executive Board of the Players' Association authorizes union head Donald
Fehr and their lawyers to work on a new agreement which will better address
the steroid problem in major league baseball. The 40 players attending the
meeting appeared to agree with the owners that more frequent and tougher
testing is needed in light of the Balco scandal.

After refusing a $60 million four-year extension from the Red Sox last
winter, Nomar Garciaparra signs a one-year deal with the Cubs, the team
he was traded to in July, for $8 million. The all-star shortstop, who is
coming off an injury-plagued season, can increase the value of the contract
with bonus incentives based on performance and playing time to $11 million.

2005
The Rangers trade Alfonso Soriano to the Nationals for outfielders Brad
Wilkerson and Terrmel Sledge, and minor league pitching prospect Armando
Galarraga. By dumping the All-Star second baseman's salary, Texas frees up
funds to seek much needed pitching.

The Diamondbacks acquire All-Star catcher Johnny Estrada (.261, 4, 39)
from the Braves for a pair of right-handed relievers:  Lance Cormier (7-3,
5.11) and Oscar Villarreal (2-0, 5.27). The deal, which is the first for
Arizona's new general manager Josh Byrnes, fills the D-Backs need for a
starting backstop and allows Atlanta to give emerging rookie Brian McCann
more playing time.

At the winter meetings, heavy trading and re-signing action occurs.

The Blue Jays ink free agent pitcher A.J. Burnett to a 5 year $55 million
contract.

In a move that makes way for Prince Fielder, the Brewers trade 1B Lyle
Overbay to the Blue Jays for OF Gabe Gross, P Dave Bush and minor league
P Zach Jackson.

The Mariners re-sign free agent P Jamie Moyer to a 1 year $5.5 million
contract.

The Indians re-sign free agent P Bob Wickman to a 1 year $5 million contract.

The Marlins shed the last of their high priced talent trading CF speedster
Juan Pierre to the Cubs for P Sergio Mitre and minor league Ps Ricky Nolasco
and Renyel Pinto.

The Cardinals trade P Ray King to the Rockies for OF Larry Bigbie and INF
Aaron Miles.

The Mariners traded C Yorvit Torrealba to the Rockies for a player to be
named later. The Rockies designate C Miguel Ojeda for assignment.

The Royals re-sign utility man Joe McEwing to a minor league contract, with
an invitation to spring training, and release P D.J. Carrasco. Carrasco
will go to Japan.

The Braves trade all-star C Johnny Estrada to the Diamondbacks for pitchers
Lance Cormier and Oscar Villarreal. The Braves send P Danny Kolb to the
Brewers for P Wes Obermueller.

The Padres trade 3B Sean Burroughs to the Devil Rays for P Dewon Brazelton and
also trade 2B Mark Loretta to the Red Sox for C Doug Mirabelli. The Sox will
hurriedly bring back Mirabelli on May 1st to once again catch Tim Wakefield.

The Padres re-sign free agent P Trevor Hoffman to a 2 year $13.5 million
contract, with an option for 2008.

The Pirates trade P Mark Redman to the Royals for P Jonah Bayliss and a
player to be named later.

The Orioles and Giants swap pitchers with Steve Kline going to the Giants
and LaTroy Hawkins and cash coming to Baltimore.

The Blue Jays trade P Chad Gaudin to the A's for a player to be named later.

John Olerud announces his retirement.

The Dodgers hire former Red Sox manager Grady Little as their new manager.

2006
Near the end of the Winter Meetings, the Royals sign Gil Meche to a five-year
deal valued at $55 million which matches Mike Sweeney's contract as the
largest in franchise history. During his five years in the major leagues,
all with the Mariners, the 28-year-old right-hander has compiled a 55-44
career record with an earned run average of 4.65 in 147 games.

The Braves trade P Horacio Ramirez to the Mariners for P Rafael Soriano.

2009
Adam Everett and the Tigers agree to a $1.55 million one-year deal keeping
the infielder in Detroit. The slick fielding shortstop batted .238 with
three homers and 44 RBIs for the second-place club last season.

Carl Pavano accepts the Twins' salary arbitration offer, keeping the
right-hander with Minnesota next season. The Southington, CT native posted
a 5-4 record with a 4.64 ERA in a dozen starts for the team after being
obtained from Cleveland in August.

The Lowell Spinners, the Red Sox short-season affiliate, well-known for
their unique promotional events, publicly extend an invitation to Michaele
and Tareq Salahi to attend the team's Eighth Annual Alumni Dinner to be
held later this month at the city's Memorial Auditorium. The infamous couple
have become recently newsworthy for their appearance at a White House State
Dinner without being included on the guest list.

2011
At the Winter Meetings, Jose Reyes is introduced as the Marlins' new
shortstop. The 28-year-old switch-hitting infielder, the NL's batting
champ, signed a six-year $106 million contract to play with Miami after
the cash-strapped Mets showed little interest in retaining their home
grown All-Star.

Tim McCarver wins the Ford C. Frick Award becoming only the second television
analyst, along with Tony Kubek, to be honored with the award which is given
for broadcasting excellence. The former catcher and longtime broadcaster
has provided local analysis for the Mets, Yankees and Phillies as well as
appearing on the national stage doing the Game of the Week and postseason
telecasts for NBC, CBS and FOX.

The Marlins continue to sign prime free agents when they reach a deal with
32-year-old southpaw Mark Buehrle (13-9, 3.59) for $58 million over four
years. Miami has also come to terms with shortstop Jose Reyes and closer
Heath Bell and are pursuing super-star Albert Pujols and starting pitcher
C.J. Wilson.

In separate deals with free-agents, the Pirates sign left-handed starter
Erik Bedard and outfielder Nate McLouth, who played with the franchise from
2005 to 2009. The Bucs' new southpaw compiled a 5-9 record last season with
Seattle and Boston, and the 30-year-old Gold Glove flycatcher returns to
the Steel City three years after being traded to Atlanta, where he hit .229
in 250 games.

The Astros hire Jeff Luhnow as the team's general manager to replace Ed
Wade, who was fired last month in the first major moves made by new owner
Jim Crane. The 45-year-old new GM, a vice president with St. Louis since
2003, will try to improve upon Houston's 56-106 finish last season, the
worst record in franchise history.

2012
The Nationals bolster an already solid rotation when the team signs veteran
Dan Haren to a one-year deal for $13 million. The 32-year-old right-hander
joins a rotation that includes Stephen Strasburg, Jordan Zimmermann, Gio
Gonzalez and Ross Detwiler.

2013
Jacoby Ellsbury agrees to a seven-year deal, valued around $153 million,
to patrol center field for the Yankees, joining Brian McCann as the team's
second major free-agent signing this week. The outfielder, who played a
major role in the Red Sox' World Championship last season, also received
offers from his former team, the Tigers and Mariners.

2015
The Diamondbacks obtain right-handed starter Shelby Miller from the Braves for
outfielder Ender Inciarte, pitching prospect Aaron Blair and Dansby Swanson,
the first player selected in this year's MLB June Amateur Draft. The deal
marks the first time a #1 overall pick has been traded within the first
year of their career, a move made possible because teams are now allowed
to trade recently drafted picks after the World Series.

