Dec 8

1914
After weeks of rumors, the bomb drops:  Connie Mack sells 27-year-old
Eddie Collins, generally regarded as the game's finest position player,
to the White Sox for $50,000. Collins signs a 5-year contract worth $75,000
and gets $15,000 as a signing bonus. The deal breaks up the A's "$100,000
infield" and raises conjecture that Mack, too, will leave to manage the
Yankees. Ban Johnson reportedly had a hand in the negotiations. Johnson
first approached the Yankees who thought the $50,000 price tag excessive.

The NL votes to hold the 1915 player limit to 21 per team. They also create
the disabled list (DL) which allows a player to be kept out of play for 10
days and have another player substituted into the roster for him.

1916
The National Commission fines 51 players $25 to $100 for performing in
post-season exhibitions. Among the guilty:  Babe Ruth, Jack Barry, Duffy
Lewis, 10 other Red Sox players and Ty Cobb.

1928
The Cardinals sell veteran SS Rabbit Maranville to the Braves.

1936
In a 3-way deal, the Indians send Thornton Lee to the White Sox, who ship
Jack Salveson to the Senators, who transfer Earl Whitehill to Cleveland.

Babe Ruth turns down an offer to manage the Albany farm team.

1939
The White Sox trade Gee Walker to the Senators for Pete Appleton and Taffy
Wright. The Sox also pick up OF Moose Solters from the Browns for OF Ray
Radcliffe, both sluggers coming of poor years.

The Dodgers get Gus Mancuso and Newt Kimball from the Cubs for Al Todd.

The Braves trade veteran Danny MacFayden to the Pirates for Bill Swift
and cash.

At the December meeting of both leagues in Cincinnati, Judge Landis votes
against all amendments favorable to farm systems. The Rules committee,
with an eye towards raising declining batting averages, votes to restore the
sacrifice fly for 1940. Seven American League owners push through a new rule
barring the AL champion from making any trades within the league. Clearly
aimed at the Yankees, winners of the last 4 World Series, the National
League owners decline to vote it for their league.

1941
Yesterday's bombing of Pearl Harbor and America's sudden involvement in
the war changes the tentative plans of American League owners. At their
meeting, the group was going to consider shifting the Browns from St. Louis
to Los Angeles.

1947
In a move that will anchor The Boys of Summer, Brooklyn acquires SS Billy Cox,
33-year-old P Preacher Roe (34-47 in 4 years in Pittsburgh), and little-used
infielder Gene Mauch from Pittsburgh for pitchers 25-year-old Vic Lombardi,
26-year-old Hal Gregg and former batting champ, 37-year-old Dixie Walker. In
the spring Walker had requested in writing to be traded, but then changed
his mind. Al Abrams, sports editor of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, opines,
"I believe they [Pirates] got the better of it in the trade."

1948
Pittsburgh trades 2B Frankie Gustine and P Cal McLish to the Cubs for P
Cliff Chambers and C Clyde McCullough.

1951
The AL alters its restrictions on night games, adopting the NL's suspended
game rule and lifting its ban on lights for Sunday games.

1954
The Cardinals send veteran pitcher Gerry Staley, who had won 84 games for
St. Louis in the past 6 seasons, along with All-Star 3B Ray Jablonski to
the Reds for Frank Smith (5-8 in 1954). The Cards have the good-fielding
Ken Boyer in the wings, making the bad-fielding Jabo expendable. He'll be
back in the minors within a year. After a year in St. Louis the Cards will
waive good-bye to Smith and Cincinnati will sign him back.

1955
Dodger C Roy Campanella wins his third NL MVP, matching the record of Stan
Musial. Campy just beats out teammate Duke Snider, 226-221, but a clerical
error, discovered later by Sid Keener of The Sporting News, may have cost
Snider a share of the award. Campy is named on all 24 ballots cast, while
Duke is named on 23. But on the ballot that fails to mention Snider, Campy
is listed twice - for 1st place and 6th place. If the ballot is invalidated,
Snider wins; if the assumption is made that the writer made an error and
meant to vote Snider in 6th place, the two teammates tie at 226 points apiece.

In the American League, Yankee C Yogi Berra wins his second straight
MVP award.

Two days after the death of Cy Young at the age of 88, Hall of Famer Honus
Wagner, 81, dies in Carnegie, PA.

1959
AL President Joe Cronin reports that expansion plans are indefinite. Branch
Rickey scores him again for his indecisiveness.

The Continental League awards a franchise to Atlanta.

Two days after trading Norm Cash, the White Sox send young OF Johnny Callison
to the Phillies for veteran INF Gene Freese. This ranks as one of the Phils'
better trades.

1961
The Mets purchase OF Richie Ashburn from the Cubs for a reported $50,000.
The veteran outfielder, who will be the club's first-ever representative
on the National League's All-Star team, will be given a boat after being
named the Most Valuable Player of the last-place team, which unfortunately
will sink before he uses it.

1966
The Yankees trade two-time MVP Roger Maris to the Cardinals for third
baseman Charley Smith. The former Bronx Bomber outfielder will play a key
role in the Redbirds' World Championship next season and will help the club
win another pennant the following year, while New York's newest infielder
will hit only .224 during his two-year tenure in New York.

1976
The Indians trade OF George Hendrick to the Padres for 3 players.

The Cubs acquire Greg Gross from Kansas City for INF Julio Gonzalez. Then
in a three-team deal, the Cubs also get OF Jim Dwyer from the Mets for Pete
LaCock. LaCock then goes to KC for Sheldon Mallory who goes to New York.

1977
In an unusual four team, off-season trade, the Atlanta Braves send Willie
Montanez to the New York Mets. Then, the Texas Rangers send Adrian Devine,
Tommy Boggs and Eddie Miller to the Braves; Tom Grieve and a player to be
named later to the Mets, and Bert Blyleven to the Pittsburgh Pirates. The
Pirates send Al Oliver and Nelson Norman to the Rangers, and the Mets send
Jon Matlack to the Rangers and John Milner to the Pirates. The Rangers later
(March 15, 1978) send Ken Henderson to the Mets to complete the trade.

The Red Sox acquire Jerry Remy from the California Angels for pitcher Don
Aase and cash.

1978
The Rangers trade 3B-SS Toby Harrah to the Indians for 3B Buddy Bell.

1980
The Cardinals and Padres complete the first major trade at the annual
winter meetings in Dallas, TX. Reliever Rollie Fingers, who won 11 games
and saved 23 for San Diego in 1980, and 24-year-old catcher Terry Kennedy,
who hit .254 for St. Louis, are the key components in the 11-player swap.

1981
In the first major deal of the winter meetings, the Cubs trade P Mike Krukow
to the Phillies for pitchers Dickie Noles and Dan Larson and versatile
Keith Moreland.

1983
Dr. Bobby Brown, who played 3B for the Yankees before embarking on a
successful medical career, is elected president of the AL by the club owners.

Ill-advisedly, the Dodgers send pitching prospect Sid Fernandez and SS Ross
Jones to the Mets in exchange for utility players Carlos Diaz and Bob Bailor.

1987
Cincinnati trades OF Dave Parker to the A's for pitchers Jose Rijo and
Tim Birtsas.

In the day's biggest (and most lopsided) deal, the Cubs send dominating
reliever Lee Smith to the Red Sox for pitchers Al Nipper and Calvin Schiraldi.

The Braves trade SS Rafael Ramirez to the Astros for a pair of minor leaguer.

1988
Pitcher Bruce Hurst, considered the cream of this year's free-agent crop,
signs a 3-year contract with the Padres.

The Expos make two trades, sending P John Dopson and SS Luis Rivera to Boston
for SS Spike Owen, and OF Tracy Jones to San Francisco for OF-1B Mike Aldrete.

The Yankees sign free-agent pitcher Andy Hawkins.

1991
The Angels acquire 1B-OF Von Hayes from the Phillies in exchange for P Kurt
Abbott and OF Ruben Amaro Jr.

The Reds trade P Randy Myers to the Padres in exchange for IF-OF Bip Roberts
and a player to be named.

Brewers reliever Julio Machado (3-3) is arrested for murder in
Venezuela. Machado is accused of shooting a woman following an auto accident
between his car and a car in which the woman was a passenger. Machado will
be convicted and, following appeals, be sentenced to 12 years in 1996.

1992
Former Pirates outfielder Barry Bonds signs the richest contract in major
league history when he agrees to a $43.75 million six-year deal to play for
the Giants. The free agent will not disappoint in San Francisco winning
the National League Most Valuable Player award, his third in four years,
hitting a career-high .336 to go along with 46 homers and 123 RBIs.

Dr. Bobby Brown, a former Yankee infielder, is elected by the owners to
be the president of the American League. Replacing Lee MacPhail, the heart
specialist will serve in the post until 1994.

The Royals sign free agent P David Cone and free agent SS Greg Gagne to
3-year contracts.

The Blue Jays sign free agent P Dave Stewart.

The White Sox sign free agent P Dave Stieb.

The Indians sign free agent P Bob Ojeda.

The Red Sox sign free agent P Scott Bankhead to a 2-year contract.

The Twins sign free agent P Jim Deshaies.

The Athletics sign free agent P Storm Davis to a 2-year contract.

The Angels trade IF Luis Sojo to the Blue Jays in exchange for 3B Kelly
Gruber.

The Cubs sign free agent P Dan Plesac to a 2-year contract.

The Marlins sign free agents Dave Magadan, Charlie Hough and Geronimo Berroa.

The Phillies sign free agent outfielder Pete Incaviglia and Milt Thompson
to 2-year contracts.

1994
Darryl Strawberry and his agent, Eric Goldschmidt, are indicted for allegedly
failing to report a half-million dollars of income from the sale of autographs
at baseball card shows.

1995
The Giants sign free agent OF Stan Javier to a 2-year contract.

1996
The Orioles sign free agent P Jimmy Key to a 2-year contract.

The Dodgers sign free agent 3B Todd Zeile to a 3-year contract.

1997
The Diamondbacks sign free agent P Willie Blair to a 3-year contract.

The Indians sign free agent OF Kenny Lofton to a 3-year contract, and free
agent P Dwight Gooden to a 2-year pact. They also trade OF Marquis Grissom
and P Jeff Juden to the Brewers in exchange for pitchers Ben McDonald,
Ron Villone and Mike Fetters. Fetters is then sent to the Athletics in
exchange for P Steve Karsay.

The Dodgers sign free agent SS Jose Vizcaino to a 3-year contract.

The Devil Rays sign free agent 1B Paul Sorrento to a 2-year
contract. Tomorrow, they agree to terms with free agent 3B Wade Boggs.

The Rangers sign free agent SS Kevin Elster.

The Blue Jays sign free agent C Mike Stanley to a 2-year contract, and free
agent IF Tony Fernandez to a 1-year pact.

1999
The Rockies sign free agent OF Tom Goodwin to a 3-year contract and tomorrow
they ink free agent C Brent Mayne to a 2-year contract.

2000
The Diamondbacks sign free agent 1B Mark Grace to a 2-year contract. Grace
was with the Cubs for 13 years and had more hits in the 1990s than any
other player.

The Cubs sign free agent P Jeff Fassero to a 2-year contract.

The Pirates sign free agent P Terry Mulholland to a 2-year contract.

The Giants sign free agent vet IF Shawon Dunston to a contract.

The Rangers sign free agent 1B Andres Galarraga to a contract.

2001
The Yankees sign free agent P Steve Karsay to a 4-year contract.

The Braves sign free agent 3B Vinny Castilla to a 2-year contract.

The Astros sign free agent C Gregg Zaun to a 2-year contract.

2003
The Blue Jays sign free agent P Kerry Ligtenberg to a 2-year contract.

2004
The Red Sox sign free agent P Matt Mantei to a contract.

The White Sox sign free agent P Dustin Hermanson to a 2-year contract.

The Marlins sign free agent P Al Leiter to a contract.

The Phillies sign free agent P Jon Lieber to a 3-year contract.

The Padres sign free agent P Woody Williams and IF Geoff Blum to contracts.

The Rangers sign free agent C Sandy Alomar to a contract.

2005
After signing the two-time gold glove shortstop to a four-year $40 million
deal, the Red Sox trade Edgar Renteria (and cash) to the Braves for third
base prospect Andy Marte. The 30-year-old Colombian infielder, who led the
majors with 30 errors last season, will help the void created when Atlanta
free-agent Rafel Furcel signed with the Dodgers earlier this week. Marte,
21, is the Braves highest rated prospect, according to Baseball America.

The Pirates send southpaw Dave Williams (10-11, 4.41) to the Reds for
Pittsburgh area native Sean Casey. The popular first baseman, who is dubbed
'The Mayor' because of his outgoing personality, becomes expendable as
Cincinnati seeks pitching to compliment its heavy-hitting lineup. Casey
hit .312 this past season and .324 in 2004.

The Tigers sign free agent Ps Kenny Rogers (2 years, $16 million) and Todd
Jones (2 years, $11 million).

The Orioles sign free agent C Ramon Hernandez to a 4-year $27.5 million
contract.

The White Sox trade P Damaso Marte to the Pirates for utility man Rob
Mackowiak.

The Yankees trade 2B-OF Tony Womack to the Reds for minor leaguers INF
Kevin Howard and OF Ben Himes. With the money freed up by dealing Womack,
the Yankees sign free agent P Mike Myers, recently of the Red Sox, to a
2-year $2.4 million contract.

The Rockies sign free agent P Jose Mesa to a 1-year $2.515 million contract,
with an option for 2007.

2006
The Dodgers sign free agent P Jason Schmidt to a 3-year contract, and
finalize a 1-year deal with free agent OF Luis Gonzalez.

The Rangers sign free agent OF Marlon Byrd to a contract.

The Cardinals sign free agent P Russ Springer to a contract.

The Royals agree to a 1-year deal with free agent P Octavio Dotel.

Free agent C Mike Piazza signs with the Athletics.

2007
In U.S. District court, Barry Bonds pleads not guilty to five felony
charges of perjury and obstruction of justice. Four years ago, the sworn
testimony to a grand jury given by the new homerun king, in which he denied
using performance-enhancing drugs, is now being challenged by the federal
government.

2008
Receiving 10 of a possible 12 votes (83.3%) Joe Gordon is elected to the
Baseball Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee. The 1942 Most Valuable
Player, who played second base for the Yankees and Indians, was a nine-time
All-Star and played on five World Series champion teams.

2009
Brad Penny and the Cardinals come to terms on a one-year deal which will pay
the right-hander $7.5 million with an additional $1.5 million available in
incentives. After compiling a 7-8 record with a 5.61 ERA and being moved
to the bullpen by the Red Sox, the two-time All-Star hurler (2006, 2007)
asks Boston to release him which gives the 31-year-old an opportunity to
finish the season with San Francisco.

Peter Gammons, who won the 2004 J.G. Taylor Spink Award for his outstanding
work as a baseball journalist, announces he will be leaving ESPN to join
the fledgling MLB Network as an analyst. The 64-year-old reporter says
he will miss his former employer of the past twenty years, but is excited
about working in a venue which is "devoted to baseball, and baseball only".

Avoiding arbitration, Mark Teahen and the White Sox agree to a $14 million
three-year deal. The 28-year-old third baseman, acquired in a trade with
the Royals last month for infielders Chris Getz and Josh Fields, would have
been eligible for free agency after the 2011 season.

Chone Figgins (.298, 5, 54) and the Mariners finalized the $36 million
four-year deal which will bring the former L.A. Angel to Seattle. The
31-year-old infielder, who primarily played third, will switch to a new
position if free-agent Adrian Beltre, the team's current third baseman,
returns to the team after an injury-plagued season.

As a result of a three-team seven-player deal, Curtis Granderson and
Edwin Jackson leave the Tigers to play for the Yankees and Diamondbacks
respectively, and New York right-hander Ian Kennedy is dealt to Arizona. The
Bronx Bombers also send Phil Coke and Austin Jackson to Detroit and the
D-Backs deal Max Scherzer and Daniel Schlereth to Detroit.

2011
In the first of their two major free-agent acquisitions today, the Angels
sign former Texas ace C. J. Wilson to a five-year $77.5 million deal.

The Angels reach an agreement with Albert Pujols on a 10-year deal for
a reported $254 million. The three-time NL MVP, who has spent his entire
career with the Cardinals, has compiled a .328 batting average and hit 445
career homeruns during his 11-year tenure in the major leagues.

2015
Amanda Hopkins is hired by the A's as a full-time major league scout, becoming
the first female to hold that position in over seventy years. The 22-year-old
former Central Washington University softball captain, whose dad is a scout,
joins Edith Houghton and Bessie Largent, who held similar positions with
the Phillies and White Sox, respectively, in the 1930's and 1940's.

2017
Shohei Ohtani, a prized Japanese pitcher as well a power hitter, comes to
terms with the Angels with a very reasonable signing agreement. Los Angeles
will place the 23-year-old Oshe native, one of the most widely-sought
prospects in baseball history, atop their starting rotation and in the
middle of their lineup.

