Dec 10

1901
In St. Louis, lefty pitcher Ted Breitenstein breaks his right arm and
sprains his left when his carriage rolls over after his horse bolts.

1918
NL secretary John A. Heydler is formally elected president of the league.
The former umpire had briefly served in the post after Harry Pulliam's
unexpected death in 1909, and he had been acting president since John Tener
stepped down last August.

1919
The National League, spearheaded by the leadership of Pirates owner Barney
Dreyfuss, approves the banning of the spitball, allowing just the current
spitballers presently throwing the pitch to use it under a "grandfather"
clause. The ban will be formally worked out by the Rules Committee in
February. A year later the American League will adopt the same rule.

With the opposition led by New York, Boston and Chicago owners, the AL
directors pass a resolution accusing Ban Johnson of overstepping his
duties. They demand that league files be turned over to them and that an
auditor review all financial accounts.

1924
The 2 leagues agree on a permanent rotation for World Series play proposed
by Charlie Ebbets:  first 2 games at one league's park, next 3 at the other
leagues park, last 2 if needed back at the first league's park, with openers
to alternate between leagues. Next year's WS will commence at the NL city.

1925
The A's pick up veteran SS Bill Wambsganss from the Red Sox.

The AL goes on record as opposing the use of resin by pitchers, but the
joint rules committee finally votes it in. The committee also agrees that
future WS games are set to start at 1:30 P.M.; 2nd-place money withheld from
the 8 Black Sox in 1920 is distributed to the other 1920 White Sox; and
players signed by August 31st are declared eligible for WS play. Finally,
no longer will an at-bat be charged if a fly ball advances a runner to 2B
or 3B, as well as home.

1927
Roger Peckinpaugh begins a 6-year term as Indians manager.

1935
Two Hall of Famers are sold today. Jimmie Foxx, along with Johnny Marcum,
(17-12), is sold by the A's to the Red Sox for $350,000 (also reported as
$250,000 and $150,000). Also included in the trade are Roger "Doc" Cramer and
Eric McNair, but the details on this will not be announced till January. The
A's get Gordon Rhodes (2-10) and a minor league catcher George Savino. The
28-year-old Foxx has averaged 41 homers over the past 7 seasons and says
about the trade, "my dream has come true." After three years in Chicago,
Al Simmons is sold by the White Sox to the Tigers for $75,000.

The NL accepts Bob Quinn, who had been GM of the Brooklyn Dodgers, as
president of the new ownership of the Braves. Quinn gains control of the club
with the backing of $200,000 by majority stockholder Charles Adams, who also
owns the Boston Bruins. Adams is stripped of his stock and as Ford Frick says,
"Adams will have no stock in the new organization." Adams, who had spent
$250,000 to improve the Braves, came under fire from Judge Landis when he
became the majority stockholder of the Suffolk Downs Race Track last summer.

Ford Frick is reelected NL president for 2 years and given a raise. The
AL votes down night ball and awards a $500 cash prize for batting leaders
retroactive to include Buddy Myer in 1935.

The Tigers of Osaka are officially formed to become Japan's 2nd professional
team.

1936
Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis announces his ruling on the Bob Feller
case. Feller joined Cleveland in July and Des Moines (Western League)
protested, claiming the pitcher for themselves. Landis let Feller stay with
Cleveland, pending his final ruling, which is announced today in favor of
the Indians.

1940
In Chicago, a curious rule that was designed to "break up the Yankees" is
continued by the AL, a rule which prohibits the team winning the championship
from trading with any other club. The rule was voted in at the December
1939 meetings by the 7 other AL owners after the Yankees won 4 straight WS.

The sac fly rule, reinstituted last year, is eliminated for the 1941
season. Though he would hit .400 without the rule change, Ted Williams will
have 6 flies that score runners from 3B in 1941.

The Giants purchase Morrie Arnovich from the Reds and send SS Wayne Ambler
to the Reds for P Milt Shoffner.

Umpire Bill Klem retires and is appointed NL chief of staff.

The major and minor leagues agree that players taken into the military will
not count against roster limits.

1941
The Reds sell 3B Bill Werber to the Giants.

1945
At the annual meeting the major leagues head off the quest of the PCL for
major status and more territorial protection for upper minors by a new
AAA classification for the PCL, American Association and International
League. The Eastern and Texas Leagues are promoted from Class A to AA. The
Southern Atlantic League moves to Class A from B.

For the majors, returning servicemen are given increased protection for one
year and the limiting of rosters to 25 players will be delayed until June 15.

The Reds sell 1B Frank McCormick to the Phillies.

1946
The Yankees sign veteran 1B George McQuinn, recently released by the A's. The
36-year-old has two good years left in him and will hit .304 with 80 RBIs
in 1947.

1947
Cleveland sends pitcher Red Embree to the Yankees for outfielder Allie
Clark. New York almost took Embree instead of Allie Reynolds in a trade a
year ago.

The Reds sell Elmer Riddle to the Pirates.

1948
The minors started 58 leagues and 438 clubs this year. All the leagues
finished schedules, but when the minor leagues ask for curbs on television
into their areas, the ML clubs sidestep the issue.

1951
The Cards trade lefty Max Lanier and OF Chuck Diering to the Giants for 2B
Eddie Stanky, who becomes the team's player-manager.

The Reds trade C Smoky Burgess, 2B Connie Ryan and P Howie Fox to the
Phillies for C Andy Seminick, IF Eddie Pellagrini, OF Dick Sisler and P
Niles Jordan. The Reds will regret letting the burly catcher go and will
reacquire him, again exchanging Seminick, in 3 years.

1953
Dodgers President Walter O'Malley unveils plans for a new stadium in Brooklyn.

The Reds trade OF Willard Marshall to the White Sox for IFs Rocky Krsnich,
Connie Ryan and P Saul Rogovin. The Sox also pick up Cass Michaels from
the A's.

1956
Similar to the National League, the Junior Circuit opts for a three-game
playoff in case of a tie at the end of the regular season. Previously
a deadlock in the American League had been broken with a one-game
winner-take-all format. The AL reelects Will Harridge to a new ten-year
term as president.

The Cubs buy perennial backup C Charlie Silvera from the Yankees. They also
trade Ps Sad Sam Jones and Jim Davis, IF Eddie Miksis and C Hobie Landrith
to the Cardinals for Ps Tom Poholsky and Jackie Collum, C Ray Katt and a
minor league P.

Mrs. Grace Comiskey, president of the White Sox, dies of a heart attack
in Washington.

1958
The University of Pittsburgh agrees to buy Forbes Field from the Pirates
and lease it to them for 5 years, or until a new municipal stadium is built.

1963
Chicago's 2B Nellie Fox is traded to the Colt '45s for cash, P Jim Golden
and OF Danny Murphy.

1965
The Pirates trade long-time Buc P Bob Friend to the Yankees for P Pete
Mikkelsen and cash.

1967
In a Puerto Rican League game, San Juan beats Arecibo, 6-3, behind Pat
Dobson. The Detroit rookie strikes out 21 Arecibo batters.

1969
The Indians trade Luis Tiant and Stan Williams to the Twins for Dean Chance,
Bob Miller, Graig Nettles and Ted Uhlaender. None of the players in the
deal will stay with their new clubs for more than two seasons season, with
the exception of Nettles, who spends three seasons with the Tribe before
being traded to New York.

1971
The Angels trade six-time all-star SS Jim Fregosi to the Mets for 4 players,
including OF Leroy Stanton and P Nolan Ryan. This will probably rank as
the Angels best trade ... and one of the worst for the Mets. The fireballer
from Texas will set the all-time strike out record (5,714) and will become
a member of the Hall of Fame while Fregosi (.232, 5, 32) will provide little
help for New York in 1972.

1972
The major leagues adopt the save as an official statistic. A pitcher shall
be credited with a save if, when entering a game as a reliever, he finds
the tying or winning run on base or at the plate, and he preserves the
lead. Or he pitches 3 effective innings and preserves the lead.

The AL votes unanimously to adopt the designated-hitter rule for a 3-year
experimental basis. The DH will replace the pitcher in the lineup unless
otherwise noted before the start of the game. In the December 1975 meeting
the AL will vote to permanently adopt the DH. The NL declines to go along
with the AL.

1975
The American League owners agree to let maverick Bill Veeck back into
baseball by allowing him to purchase the White Sox from John Allyn for
nearly $10 million dollars. Bill Veeck and assistant Roland Hemonds set
up shop in the hotel lobby at the winter meetings with a sign saying "open
for business" and start dealing, making 7 trades in 2 days. First to go is
pitcher Jim Kaat and SS Mike Buskey to the Phillies. The White Sox receive
Ps Dick Ruthven and Roy Thomas along with OF/INF Alan Bannister.

1976
Rangers SS Danny Thompson, a 7-year veteran, dies at Rochester, MN, two
months short of his 30th birthday. He led all shortstops in hitting in 1972
with a .276 average, but was diagnosed with leukemia the following winter.

The Expos send Andre Thornton, whose average slumped 100 points to .194,
to the Indians for P Jackie Brown. A great pickup for the Tribe, Thornton
will lead the club in HRs seven times as a 1B/DH.

1980
The Red Sox trade SS Rick Burleson and 3B Butch Hobson to the Angels for
3B Carney Lansford, CF Rick Miller and P Mark Clear.

1981
In what would be a blockbuster swap of outstanding young shortstops, the
Cardinals trade Garry Templeton and OF Sixto Lezcano to the Padres for
Ozzie Smith and P Steve Mura. The deal is put on hold, however, when Smith
is unable to work out an acceptable contract with his new club.

The Royals send vet Clint Hurdle to the Reds for P Scott Brown.

1982
The Mets trade starter Mike Scott, who compiled a 14-27 record during his four
years with the team, to the Astros in exchange for Danny Heep. After learning
how to throw the split-finger fastball from Roger Craig, the right-hander
becomes the ace of the staff leading Houston to the post-season, throwing
a no-hitter and winning 110 out 191 decisions during his nine-year tenure
with club.

1984
Expos catcher Gary Carter becomes the 3rd All-Star caliber player in 5
days to be traded, going to the Mets in exchange for IF-OF Hubie Brooks,
C Mike Fitzgerald, OF Herm Winningham and minor league P Floyd Youmans.
Carter will become a important part of the success New York will have during
the rest of the decade.

1985
In the first major swap of the winter meetings, the A's trade C Mike Heath
and P Tim Conroy to the Cardinals for Joaquin Andujar, a 21-game winner
with a volatile temperament.

1986
In the first 2 major trades of the winter meetings, the Dodgers send 1B Greg
Brock to the Brewers for pitchers Tim Leary and Tim Crews. The Mariners
trade OF Danny Tartabull and P Rick Luecken to Kansas City for pitchers
Scott Bankhead, Steve Shields and Mike Kingery.

1987
The White Sox trade ace lefthander Floyd Bannister (16-11 last season)
and Dave Cochrane to the Royals for John Davis, Melido Perez, Greg Hibbard
and Chuck Mount.

1988
Free-agent Willie Randolph signs with the Dodgers. He will replace Steve Sax
in the lineup, who earlier this month signed with Randolph's former club,
the Yankees.

1991
Admitted gambler Howard Spira is sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for
attempting to extort $110,000 from Yankees owner George Steinbrenner.

The Giants trade OF Kevin Mitchell and P Mike Remlinger to the Mariners in
exchange for Ps Bill Swift, Mike Jackson and Dave Burba. Mitchell won the
National League Most Valuable Player Award in 1989.

1992
The Yankees sign free agent P Jimmy Key to a 4-year contract.

1993
The Colorado Silver Bullets are officially recognized as the first all-women's
baseball team in the minor leagues.

1996
The Tigers make their biggest trade since 1957 sending 4 players to
Houston in exchange for 5 Astros. Detroit C Brad Ausmus, P Jose Lima,
lefties C.J. Nitkowski and Trever Miller, and IF Daryle Ward go to the NL
for starters Brian Hunter and Orlando Miller, Doug Brocail and Todd Jones,
and a player to come later. Brocail, also involved in the 1994 12-player swap
between San Diego and Houston, will be Detroit's Opening Day pitcher in April.

Montreal reliever Mel Rojas signs with the Cubs for a three-year $13.75
million contract. With Ugueth Urbina waiting in the wings, the Expos found
the expensive Rojas expendable.

The Reds sign free agent P Kent Mercker.

The Marlins sign free agent veteran Dennis Cook to a 2-year contract.

1997
The White Sox sign free agent catchers Charlie O'Brien and Chad Kreuter.

The Yankees sign free agent DH Chili Davis to a 2-year contract.

1998
After 24 years and 1,071 appearances, Dennis Eckersley, 44, who has pitched
in more major league games than any other player retires as an active player
in an emotional press conference.

Tampa Bay signs Blue Jays free-agent Jose Canseco to a one-year deal to
play left field and DH. The 34-year-old slugger will have a productive year
going deep 34 times and driving in 95 runs, but his performance doesn't
enhance the Devil Rays last place finish in the AL East.

The Mariners sign free agent C Tom Lampkin to a 2-year contract.

The Royals sign free agent IF Rey Sanchez, and acquire IF Joe Randa from
the Mets in exchange for OF Juan LeBron.

1999
The Mets obtain P Jesse Orosco from the Orioles in exchange for P Chuck
McElroy. The 43-year-old Orosco last played for the Mets in 1987.

The Cubs sign free agent C Joe Girardi, late of the Yankees, to a 3-year
contract.

Babe Ruth is voted Player of the Century by an Associated Press panel. Willie
Mays comes in second.

2000
The Pirates sign free agent OF Derek Bell to a 2-year contract.

The Rockies sign free agent OF Ron Gant to a contract.

The Rangers sign free agent P Mark Petkovsek to a 2-year contract, and free
agent 3B Ken Caminiti to a contract.

The Marlins obtain OF Jeff Abbott from the White Sox in exchange for OF
Julio Ramirez.

2001
The Blue Jays send SS Alex Gonzalez to the Cubs in exchange for P Felix
Heredia and a player to be named. The Cubs make the move after talks with
SS Ricky Gutierrez reached an impasse 3 days ago, and the team elected not
to go to arbitration. Gonzalez just completed the 1st year of a 4-year $19
million contract.

The Cardinals sign free agent P Jason Isringhausen to a 4-year contract.

2002
The Devil Rays sell 1B Steve Cox to the Yokohama Bay Stars, pending Cox
clearing waivers.

2003
The Rockies sign free agent 3B Vinny Castilla, bringing him back to Coors
Field.

The Mets sign Japanese SS Kaz Matsui to a 3-year contract.

The Rangers sign free agent 1B Brad Fullmer to a contract.

The Devil Rays sign free agent 1B-OF Eduardo Perez to a 2-year contract.

The Astros sign free agent hometown lefty Andy Pettitte to a 3-year contract
after the Yankees take their sweet time tendering him an offer. Newspaper
conjecture is that Roger Clemens will come out of retirement to join him
on the Astros, but the Rocket decides to stay retired.

The Royals sign free agent C Benito Santiago to a 2-year contract.

The Tigers sign free agent 2B Fernando Vina to a 2-year contract.

2004
The Angels sign free agent OF Steve Finley to a 2-year contract.

The Diamondbacks sign free agent P Russ Ortiz to a 4-year contract.

The Marlins sign free agent P Alfonso Alfonseca to a 2-year contract.

The Rangers sign free agent OF Richard Hidalgo to a contract.

2008
The Mets complete a $37 million three-year contract with free-agent reliever
Francisco Rodriguez. The former Angels closer, who fills a big void in the
New York bullpen due to Billy Wagner's injury, set a major league record
last season recording 62 saves.

In a 12-player three-team trade, the Mets send much-maligned reliever
Aaron Heilman, fan favorite Endy Chavez, southpaw Jason Vargas and three
minor leaguers to the Mariners for closer J.J. Putz, who will serve as the
setup man for recently acquired Francisco Rodriguez, center fielder Jeremy
Reed and reliever Sean Green. The Indians send outfield prospect Franklin
Gutierrez to Seattle to get Mets side-slinging reliever Joe Smith and second
baseman Luis Valbuena from the Mariners.

With the fourth richest deal in major league history, the most ever
offered to a pitcher, the Yankees sign free-agent CC Sabathia to a $161
million seven-year contract, with an opt-out clause after three years. The
28-year-old right-hander's $35 million average salary is just ahead of
Johan Santana's agreement with the Mets inked in February.

Nick Peters becomes the 60th winner of the J.G. Taylor Spink Award, named
for its first recipient and given annually by the BBWAA "for meritorious
contributions to baseball writing". The San Francisco native covered the
Giants for 47 years, a span (1961-2007) in which he reported on more Giants
games than anyone in franchise history.

2009
The Pirates sign Bobby Crosby (.231, 22, 64), the 2004 American League
Rookie of the Year, to a $1 million one-year contract. Last season, the
29-year-old versatile infielder played multiple games for the A's at all
four infield positions.

