Dec 11

1906
Harry Pulliam is reelected president of the NL at a salary of $10,000.

In a good trade for Boston (NL), they acquire lefty Patsy Flaherty, 2B
Claude Ritchey and OF Ginger Beaumont from the Pirates for good-fielding
2B Ed Abbaticchio. Abbaticchio will lead the NL in fielding in 1908, but
Ritchey will lead in '07, and the other pair will be mainstays.

1912
The Reds trade outfielders Mike Mitchell and Pete Knisely, infielders Red
Corriden and Art Phelan, and P Bert Humphries to the Cubs for C Harry Chapman,
P Grover Lowdermilk and SS Joe Tinker, who will manage the Reds for one year.

1917
The Phils sell star pitcher Grover Cleveland Alexander, twice a 30-game
winner, and his personal catcher "Reindeer" Bill Killefer to the Cubs for
righthander "Iron" Mike Prendergast, C Pickles Dillhoefer and $55,000. Phils
owner William Baker later admits he made the trade because, "I needed the
money." The 5th-place Cubs expect the addition of Alexander to greatly
strengthen their staff, but he will be drafted into the Army.

1923
Considered a troublemaker, the Yankees sell Carl Mays (5-2) to the Reds for
$7500. The submariner, who was not used in the WS, will win 20 for the Reds
next season.

1924
Eddie Collins signs as player-manager of the White Sox.

1926
Cleveland coach Jack McAllister is named to replace Tris Speaker as Indians
manager.

1927
The Browns sell George Sisler to Washington for $25,000.

1928
At the NL meeting, President John A. Heydler proposes the designated hitter
for pitchers to improve and speed up the game. He contends fans are tired
of seeing weak-hitting pitchers come to bat. Heydler refers to his idea
as "the tenth regular." The American League opposes the idea and the NL
withdraws the proposal before Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis is asked
to break the deadlock.

Brooklyn sends P Jesse Petty to Pittsburgh for SS Glenn Wright. Wright will
injure his arm in a handball accident and will play just 24 games in 1929,
but in 1930 he'll post career highs in hitting and HRs.

1929
The Cards send Grover Cleveland Alexander, 42, back to the Phillies with
C Harry McCurdy for OF Homer Peel and P Bob McGraw.

The Browns trade C Wally Schang back to the Athletics for 3B Sammy Hale.

1930
The BBWAA votes to continue the custom of selecting an MVP for each
league. Beginning in 1931 the annual vote of the BBWAA will designate a player
for this honor in each league. Previous MVP winners will be able to repeat
under the new rules, something that was prohibited by the AL in the 1920s.

1931
Despite 2 wins in the WS, spitball veteran Burleigh Grimes is traded by
the Cards to the Cubs for the fallen Hack Wilson. Wilson will be offered
just $7,500 reflecting the owner's new austerity drive. Grimes will have
3 losing seasons in Chicago before calling it quits.

1934
The 1935 All-Star Game is assigned to Cleveland. Frankie Frisch and Mickey
Cochrane, rival managers in the St. Louis-Detroit WS, will manage their
league's teams.

The NL votes to permit night baseball, authorizing a maximum of 7 games
by any team installing lights. The AL does not grant permission for night
games until 1937.

1935
The Yankees trade the hot-tempered Johnny Allen to Cleveland for pitchers
Monte Pearson and Steve Sundra, a minor leaguer.

1938
The Giants get slugger Zeke Bonura from Washington for $20,000 and 2 minor
league players.

1939
The Yomiuri Giants beat the Hanshin Tigers, 4-2, to clinch the Japanese
league pennant. The Giants will win the pennant for the next 4 years.

1940
The ML extends Judge Landis another 4-year term. They also vote to limit
night games to 7 per team.

1941
Cardinals GM Branch Rickey, possibly motivated by a clause in his contract
that gives him 20% of the team's profits, trades slugger Johnny Mize to the
Giants for three players - Bill Lohrman, Ken O'Dea and Johnny McCarthy -
as well as $50,000. Mize's homerun production had fallen from 43 to 16
in 1941, but he will adjust to the Polo Grounds and lead the National
League in 1947-48. Yesterday Rickey sold C/OF Don Padgett to Brooklyn for
$30,000. Padgett will enter the Navy without playing a game for the Dodgers,
and Brooklyn will try unsuccessfully to get their money back from the Cards.

The Pirates send All-Star SS Arky Vaughan to Brooklyn for P Luke Hamlin,
C Babe Phelps, OF Jimmy Wasdell and 2B Pete Coscarart.

1945
The Giants obtain a genuine "phenom," pitcher/outfielder Clint Hartung, from
Minneapolis for $20,000 and 3 players. Much ballyhooed, Hartung hit .358 in
66 games in 1942 for Eau Claire (Northern) while winning 3 games. He was in
the military for the next 3 years, and will be for the 1946 season. The New
York World Telegram's Tom Meany writes, "Hartung's a sucker if he reports
to the Giants. All he has to do is sit at home, wait till he's eligible,
and he's a cinch to make the Hall of Fame."

1947
The Reds trade 1B Bert Haas to the Phils for P Tommy Hughes.

Branch Rickey announces that the Dodgers have signed an agreement with Bud
Holman and the city of Vero Beach to rent 104 acres of a former pre-war
municipal airport. They will pay $1 a year and take over the maintenance. In
1952 the Dodgers will sign a new 20-year lease for $1 a year, and on March
11, 1953, a new field will be named Holman Stadium.

1950
At the winter meeting, held in St. Petersburg, FL, ML owners vote 9-7 against
renewing Commissioner Happy Chandler's contract for a new term, starting
in 1951. The Cardinals' Fred Saigh led the opposition to Chandler, who had
jeopardized the reserve clause and ordered investigations of the alleged
gambling activities of several owners. The former Senator from Kentucky,
who will be inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1982 due to his contribution
to the game, is given credit for helping to integrate the majors, putting
six umps on the field during the World Series, and starting the players'
pension fund.

1951
Joe DiMaggio officially retires as a member of the New York Yankees with 361
HRs and an average of .325 after 13 seasons. His 56-game consecutive-game
hitting streak in 1941 will stand as one of the all-time best diamond
achievements.

1952
Pittsburgh names Fred Haney as its manager for 1953 replacing Bill Meyer,
the Bucs manager since 1947. The Bucs will finish in last place each season,
compiling a dismal 163-299 (.353) record during the new skipper's three-year
tenure in Pittsburgh.

1954
With the Athletics poised to move to Kansas City, the Phillies purchase
Connie Mack Stadium.

1956
A major league player association is formed. Bob Feller, a star pitcher
with the Indians, is named as the organization's first president.

The Major Leagues vote at a joint meeting to reduce player limits to 28 by
Opening Day.

1957
U.S. Congressman Emanuel Celler and Senator Kenneth Keating, both of New
York, hint that there might be antitrust action against ML baseball if it
televises games as planned, because it jeopardizes the minor leagues.

The Phillies purchase veteran OF Dave Philley from Detroit.

1959
After their offer to deal Roger Maris for Dick Groat is rejected by the
Pirates, the A's, who had been prohibited by the league from trading the
slugging outfielder to the Yankees for 18 months after obtaining him from
the Indians on June 15, 1958, sends the right-fielder and two other players
to New York in exchange for Hank Bauer, Don Larsen, Norm Siebern and Marv
Throneberry. The year and a half moratorium on the potential trade was put
into place to alleviate the perception that Kansas City was serving as a
'big league' farm club for the Bronx Bombers.

The Orioles elect Lee MacPhail as president of the club.

1962
The Red Sox trade Tracy Stallard, Pumpsie Green and a player to be named
later (Al Moran) to the Mets in exchange for Felix Mantilla. Stallard,
best known for throwing the pitch to Roger Maris for the record-breaking
61st homerun, will become a twenty-game loser for New York in 1964.

1968
The Angels trade two catchers, Ed Kirkpatrick and Dennis Paepke, to the Kansas
City A's for Hoyt Wilhelm. The right-handed knuckleballer, who will be traded
to Atlanta in September, will post a 5-7 record along with 10 saves while
compiling a respectable ERA of 2.47 during his five months with the Halos.

1969
A Federal Court in New York City rules against the suit of umpires Bill
Valentine and Al Salerno because baseball is exempt from antitrust laws.

1970
The Braves' Rico Carty, the leading active ML hitter at .322 lifetime, suffers
a fractured knee and ligament damage in a Dominican League game. Carty will
miss the entire 1971 season.

1973
After being the first player to invoke the new 10 and 5 rule to avoid
being dealt to the Angels, Ron Santo agrees to be traded to the southside
of Chicago to play for the rival White Sox. In return for the 33-year-old
infielder, who will play just one season with the Pale Hose before retiring,
the Cubs receive Jim Kremmel (the player to be named later), Ken Frailing,
Steve Stone and Steve Swisher.

In a motel in the Dominican Republic, Cesar Cedeno is with a girl friend
when she takes his gun and accidentally shoots and kills herself. After
the gunshot, Cedeno calls the police and says that a woman has been
killed. Then he flees the scene before turning himself in to the police 8
hours later. Cedeno is charged with voluntary manslaughter, and spends 20
days in jail before the charges are reduced to involuntary manslaughter and
he is released. He will be found guilty of the latter, fined, but spend no
more time in jail.

1975
In a busy day of trading, the Yankees acquire pitchers Dock Ellis and Ken
Brett, and second baseman Willie Randolph from the Pirates for hurler Doc
Medich. In a separate deal with the Angels, the club trades Bobby Bonds
for outfielder Mickey Rivers and pitcher Ed Figueroa. Randolph will hold
down 2B for a decade while Rivers will provide a fine CF. Medich will go
8-11 before being traded.

The White Sox send Bill Melton and Steve Dunning to the Angels for 1B Jim
Spencer and OF Morris Nettles.

1981
Despite having mediocre results with the team last season, 37-year-old Joe
Morgan is re-signed by the Giants. The veteran second baseman will win the
Silver Slugger award next season compiling a .289 batting average.

Veteran free-agent infielder Mark Belanger signs a one-year contract with
the Dodgers.

Seattle trades OF Tom Paciorek to the White Sox for C Jim Essian, IF Todd
Cruz and Rod Allen.

1984
OF Fred Lynn, a free agent, signs a 4-year contract with the Orioles.

1985
In a three team deal, the Giants send 2B Manny Trillo to the Cubs who give
SS Dave Owen, and C Alex Trevino to the Dodgers who, in turn, send OF Candy
Maldonado to the Giants.

The Phillies trade pitchers John Denny and Jeff Gray to the Reds for OF
Gary Redus and P Tom Hume.

The Dodgers trade veteran catcher Steve Yeager to the Mariners for P Ed
Vande Berg.

1987
In a 3-team trade, the Dodgers acquire relief pitcher Jesse Orosco from the
Mets and relief pitcher Jay Howell and SS Alfredo Griffin from the A's,
and send pitchers Bob Welch and Matt Young to Oakland and minor leaguer
Jack Savage to New York. The Mets receive two A's minor leaguers to complete
the deal, pitchers Kevin Tapani and Wally Whitehurst.

In the first trade ever between the Yankees and Mets that involves a ML
player, the Mets send SS Rafael Santana and a minor leaguer to the Bronx
for C Phil Lombardi and minor leaguers Darren Reed and Steve Frey.

1989
The Royals sign free agent Mark Davis to a 4-year contract. Davis and
Bret Saberhagen will make the 1990 Royals the first team ever to have both
defending Cy Young Award winners.

1991
The Royals deal right-hander Bret Saberhagen and utility player Bill Pecota to
the Mets for Gregg Jefferies, Kevin McReynolds and Keith Miller. The two-time
Cy Young Award winner will post only a 3-5 record in his first season with
New York and will compile a 29-27 record during his 3+ seasons with the team.

1992
The Orioles sign free agent 2B Harold Reynolds.

The Angels sign free agent OF Chili Davis to a 2-year contract.

The Tigers sign free agent P Bill Krueger to a 2-year contract.

The Cubs sign free agent OF Candy Maldonado to a 2-year contract.

1995
The White Sox sign free agent DH Harold Baines.

The Yankees sign free agent IF Mariano Duncan to a 2-year contract.

1996
The White Sox sign free agent P Jaime Navarro to a 4-year contract.

The Yankees sign free agent P Mike Stanton to a 3-year contract.

The Phillies sign free agent P Mark Portugal to a 2-year contract.

1997
The Braves trade P Chad Fox to the Brewers in exchange for OF Gerald Williams.

The Orioles sign free agent P Doug Drabek and tomorrow sign free agent OF
Joe Carter.

The Twins sign free agent OF Otis Nixon.

1998
The Reds sign free agent P Steve Avery.

The Athletics sign the much-traveled free agent IF-OF Tony Phillips.

1999
The Cubs obtain OF Damon Buford from the Red Sox in exchange for IF Manny
Alexander.

The Mets sign free agent 1B-3B Todd Zeile to a 3-year contract.

2000
The Rangers sign free agent SS Alex Rodriguez to a record $252 million,
10-year contract. It is the richest contract in the history of professional
sports.

The Royals sign free agent P Doug Henry to a 2-year contract. The Angels
sign free agent P Pat Rapp.

The Blue Jays sign free agent 2B Jeff Frye to a contract.

The Mets sign free agent P Kevin Appier to a 4-year contract, and free
agent P Steve Trachsel to a 2-year contract.

The Mets trade OF Bubba Trammell to the Padres for P Donne Wall.

The Tigers obtain P Chris Holt, OF Roger Cedeno, and C Mitch Meluskey from the
Astros for C Brad Ausmus, and pitchers Doug Brocail and Nelson Cruz. Houston
catchers threw out 22% of base stealers in 2000, while Ausmus gunned down 42%.

The Expos swap minor leaguers with the Orioles sending pitcher Jorge Julio
to Baltimore for 3B Ryan Minor.

2001
The Mets trade southpaw Billy Traber and outfielders Matt Lawton and Alex
Escobar to the Indians for superstar second baseman Roberto Alomar along
with prospect Danny Peoples and left-hander Mike Bacsik. The Gold Glove
infielder, the centerpiece of the deal, will be a major bust in Flushing
hitting just .265 and playing uninspired defense for New York before being
shipped to the White Sox in the middle of the 2003 season.

In a swap of outfielders, the Reds send Dmitri Young to the Tigers in
exchange for Juan Encarnacion. Cincinnati also gets P Luis Pineda in the deal.

The Mariners and Padres complete a 6-player deal that sends P Brett Tomko,
SS Ramon Vazquez and C Tom Lampkin to San Diego. C Ben Davis, IF Alex Arias
and P Wascar Serrano move on to Seattle.

Former USC P Mark Prior wins the Golden Spikes Award as the top amateur
baseball player in the US. Prior signed a 5-year contract with the Cubs
after being selected in the June draft.

The Rangers sign free agent P Jay Powell to a 3-year contract.

2002
The Brewers sign free agent SS Royce Clayton to a contract.

2004
The Pirates traded newly-acquired P Arthur Rhodes to the Indians for OF
Matt Lawton.

The Brewers obtain P Jose Capellan and a player to be named from the Braves
in exchange for closer Danny Kolb. Kolb (0-4) had 39 saves and just 21
strikeouts in 57 1/3 innings. He is the first pitcher with more than 30
saves and less than 30 K's.

2006
The Orioles sign free agent OF Jay Payton to a 2-year contract.

The Tigers sign free agent P Jose Mesa to a contract.

The Rangers agree to a 1-year contract with free agent OF Kenny Lofton.

The Angels agree to a 1-year contract with free agent P Darren Oliver.

2007
After declining offers from the Yomiuri Giants and his former team, the
Chunichi Dragons, Kosuke Fukudome comes to terms with the Cubs on a four-year
deal reported to be worth $48 million. The 30-year-old Japanese outfielder,
also sought by the Padres, White Sox, Giants and Rangers, compiled a .305
batting average during his 13-year tenure in Japan's Central League.

2008
The Red Sox unveil their new, but familiar "Hanging Sox" logo. Originally
sown on uniforms in 1931, the pair of red socks will now appear on most
of the club's letterhead and signs diminishing the use of the circular
trademark which contain the words "Boston Red Sox".

2009
The Rays obtain Rafael Soriano (27 saves, 2.97) from Atlanta agreeing to a
$7.25 million one-year deal with the reliever to complete the transaction. The
Braves, who get right-hander Jesse Chavez from Tampa Bay in the trade,
recently bolstered their bullpen with Billy Wagner and Takashi Saito,
making the 29-year-old right-hander expendable.

Clearly stating he wants to be an everyday player on a winning team,
Ivan Rodriguez agrees to a $6 million two-year deal with the Nationals,
the worst team in baseball last season. The 38-year-old catcher will share
playing time and his experience with Jesus Flores, Washington's young
up-and-coming backstop.

Free-agent Jason Kendall signs a $6 million two-year deal to become the
Royals everyday catcher. The 35-year-old savvy backstop, a life-time .290
hitter, batted only .241 with only two homeruns and 43 RBIs with Milwaukee
last season.

2010
Rays free-agent Carl Crawford agrees to a seven-year $142-million deal with
the Red Sox. The 29-year-old outfielder's tenure in Boston will be brief
when he plays only two disappointing injury-plagued seasons with the team
before being traded to the Dodgers as part of a block-buster trade.

2014
The Marlins make a blockbuster trade with the Dodgers, acquiring speedster Dee
Gordon, right-hander Dan Haren, infielder Miguel Rojas and cash considerations
in exchange for Austin Barnes, Chris Hatcher, Enrique Hernandez and their
top southpaw prospect Andrew Heaney, who will be dealt later in the day
by his new team to the Angels for Howie Kendrick. The addition of Gordon,
who led the National League with 64 stolen bases last season, gives Miami
a bona fide leadoff hitter while improving their defense at second base.

