Dec 12

1902
Harry Pulliam is elected president of the NL.

1903
During the post-season City Series in Chicago, the Cubs veteran Jack
Taylor is chided for losing 3 games to the White Sox and Cubs president
John Hart is convinced that gambling was involved. Taylor is traded to the
St. Louis Cardinals with rookie C Larry McLean for pitcher Mike O'Neill and
a righthander who was 9-13 in his first season, Mordecai "Three Finger" Brown.

Continuing efforts to build a winner in New York, John McGraw acquires
34-year-old SS Bill Dahlen from Brooklyn in exchange for pitcher John Cronin
and iron-fingered SS Charlie Babb. McGraw says this is the trade that makes
the Giants into winners. In 1904, Dahlen will top the NL with 80 RBIs. When
he retires in 1911, he will have fielded more chances than any other SS.

1906
The AL gives Ban Johnson a raise to $15,000 for the remaining 4 years of
his contract.

1908
The Cardinals are busy. First they get C Admiral Schlei from the Reds for
pitchers Ed Karger and Art Fromme. Then they pack off Schlei, along with
P Bugs Raymond and OF Red Murray, to the Giants for veteran catcher Roger
Bresnahan. Bresnahan, a future Hall of Famer, will be the player/manager
of the Cardinals for the next 4 years. Raymond lost 25 games in 1908,
but a ML-record 11 of them were by shutouts (he won 5): Bugs was blanked
by Chicago (3); Brooklyn (2); Philadelphia (2); and one each by the Reds,
Braves, Giants and Pirates.

1911
A rift between the leagues develops over widespread charges of ticket
speculation during the WS, and accusations that officials of the Giants
and A's were involved. The AL passes a resolution refusing to participate
in another WS until it has control of ticket sales in its own parks. The
National Commission investigates the charge that speculators were given
large blocks of tickets, but takes no action and releases no findings. The
following spring, the Commission finds that much scalping occurred, but
there is no evidence either team was involved, and peace is declared.

1913
While John McGraw is on his world tour, Giants president Harry Hempstead
makes a swap with the Reds. The Reds send OF Bob Bescher to the Giants for
young catcher Grover Hartley and Buck Herzog, who replaces Joe Tinker as
manager and shortstop.

The Pirates clean house in an 8-player swap with the Cardinals. Going to
St. Louis is Dots Miller, a 1909 World Series hero, 14-game winner Hank
Robinson, 3B Cozy Dolan, IF Art Butler and OF Owen "Chief" Wilson, king of
the triple. The Pirates receive pitcher Bob Harmon, 3B Mike Mowrey and 1B
Ed Konetchy, whom the Bucs had been after for years. Konetchy, unhappy in
St. Louis, will have his worst season (.249) in years, while Miller will
have his best (.290), giving credence to the trading abilities of manager
Miller Huggins.

The Cubs fire Johnny Evers as manager, but expect him to continue as a
player. He declines.

1917
In New York, the International League owners cut president Ed Barrow's
salary from $7500 to $2500, essentially forcing him to resign. They will
later regret their hasty action and try to lure Barrow back for $5,000. The
Buffalo franchise, owned by Joseph Lannin, is forfeited, and at least
three other franchises - Rochester, Providence and Richmond - are ready to
throw in the towel. In February, the International League reorganizes. The
Richmond, Montreal and Providence franchises are replaced by Binghamton,
Jersey City and Syracuse. The IL will be the only minor league to play its
full schedule in 1918.

1922
Jake Ruppert agrees to buy out his partner Colonel Huston and gains full
control of the Yankees.

1924
The Senators pick up 35-year-old Stan Coveleskie from Cleveland in exchange
for Byron Speece and Emanuel Carr Smith. Coveleskie, a future Hall of Famer,
will go 20-5 and lead the AL in ERA.

1927
The NL reports more than 5 million attendance for the league in 1927,
a new high. Veteran umpire Hank O'Day is named "player and umpire scout"
for the league.

1928
The Pirates buy lefthander Larry French from Portland (PCL).

1930
The Rules Committee of baseball issues a greatly revised code, reducing the
number of rules by combining many. Not only is the sacrifice rule abolished
but also the rule awarding HRs when the ball bounces into the stands. "Bounce
homers" will now be doubles. This had already been in effect in the AL but
not in the NL.

1932
In a 3-team deal, the Giants send Freddie Lindstrom to the Pirates and OF
Chick Fullis to the Phils, getting P Glenn Spencer and OF George Davis in
return. The Bucs ship OF Gus Dugas to Philley. Lindstrom's departure was
expected after he made known his disappointment in not being named John
McGraw's successor.

1933
The A's swap Lefty Grove, Rube Wallberg and Max Bishop to the Red Sox for
Bob Kline, Rabbit Warstler and $125,000.

At the major leagues' annual meeting in Chicago, the owners vote Judge
Landis another 7-year contract as commissioner. Will Harridge gets a new
5-year pact as AL president.

Representatives of the Montreal International League Club, including Charles
Trudeau, father of future PM Pierre, are at the Winter Meetings in hopes
of landing a ML club for Montreal.

Connie Mack is still selling. First he sells Lefty Grove, the A's top winner
in each of the past 5 seasons, along with Max Bishop and Rube Walberg to the
Boston Red Sox for $125,000 and two players, pitcher Bob Kline and infielder
Rabbit Warstler. Then George Earnshaw and recently acquired backstop Johnny
Pasek go to the White Sox for $20,000 and catcher Charlie Berry. Berry once
led the NFL in scoring and will become a ML umpire in the 1940s.

1938
The Tigers buy PCL pitching sensation Fred Hutchinson from Seattle for cash
and four players.

1940
Washington sends Gee Walker to the Red Sox for Doc Cramer. Walker is then
packed off to Cleveland with P Jim Bagby Jr and OF/C Gene Desautels for
C Frankie Pytlak, IF Odell Hale and P Joe Dobson. At the end of the War,
on December 12, 1945, Bagby will return to the Red Sox. Boston also buys
Pete Fox from Detroit.

1941
The Dodgers obtain Arky Vaughn from the Pirates for right-hander Luke
Hamlin, 1B/OF Jimmy Wasdell and catcher Babe Phelps. The future Hall of
Fame infielder, who will have his stint in Brooklyn interrupted by WWII,
plays four seasons with the club compiling a .291 batting average.

1944
The Tigers swap infielder Joe Orengo to the Red Sox for Skeeter Webb,
son-in-law of Detroit manager Steve O'Neill. O'Neill denies any knowledge
of trade talks, saying "I read about it in the morning paper."

1945
Five years to the day after shipping Jim Bagby Jr off to Cleveland, the Red
Sox reacquire the vet, in exchange for P Vic Johnson and cash. Boston also
sells SS Skeeter Newsome to the Phils.

1949
By a 7-1 vote, the AL rejects a proposal to bring back the legal spitball. The
rules committee also alters the strike zone to the space between the armpits
and the top of the knees. The new rule eliminates the batter's shoulders
being within the strike zone.

1950
The owners vote to drop the bonus and high school rule which was designed to
prevent the wealthier clubs from buying up all of the available talent. The
rule required all 'bonus' players to stay on the major league roster one
season in the minors.

1952
Peter J. McGovern becomes president of the Little League, succeeding Charles
Durban, who resigns because of ill health. The Little League began in 1939
with 8 teams in 2 leagues and has grown to over 1,800 leagues in 44 states
and several foreign countries.

1963
Minnesota LF Harmon Killebrew undergoes knee surgery.

1965
Roy Hofheinz fires manager Lum Harris (65-97). Grady Hatton takes over
the Astros.

1966
By a 4-3 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court refuses to review Wisconsin's
suit to prevent the Braves' move to Atlanta, thereby retaining baseball's
"umbrella" under antitrust laws.

1968
The Kansas City Royals complete their first trade, sending P Hoyt Wilhelm
to the Angels for 2 outfielders/catchers, Ed Kirkpatrick and Dennis Paepke.

1969
Cleveland trades pitchers Luis Tiant Jr and Stan Williams to the Twins
for 3B Graig Nettles, OF Ted Uhlaender and pitchers Dean Chance and
Bob Miller. Tiant had led the AL in ERA (1.60) and shutouts while going
21-9 in 1968; next year, in 1969, he nearly reversed his won-lost mark,
falling to 9-20. He'll pitch an injury-shortened season for the Twins in
1970 and won't regain his dominance until 1972 when he'll go 15-6 with a
major league-leading 1.91 ERA with the Boston Red Sox.

The Mets pick up veteran P Ray Sadecki and OF Dave Marshall from the Giants
for OF Jim Gosger and IF Bob Heise.

1975
The Mets trade OF Rusty Staub and P Bill Laxton to the Tigers for P Mickey
Lolich and OF Billy Baldwin. Lolich leaves Detroit after 13 years and 207
wins and remains the team's career leader in games started, strikeouts
and shutouts.

After being a White Sox for 2 days, Dick Ruthven goes to Atlanta, along
with Danny Osborn. Chicago receives Ralph Garr and Larvell Blanks. Blanks
is then dealt to Cleveland for 2B Jack Brohamer. The Sox then trade P Rich
Hinton and C Jeff Sovern to the Reds for P Clay Carroll, and finish the day
by shipping Lee Richard to the Cards for Buddy Bradford and P Greg Terlecky.

1979
The Giants sign re-entry free agents 2B Rennie Stennett, C Milt May and OF
Jim Wohlford to contracts worth a total of $4.825 million.

1980
The Cardinals make their 3rd major trade, sending the recently acquired
P Rollie Fingers, C Ted Simmons and P Pete Vuckovich to the Brewers in
exchange for P Lary Sorensen, OF Sixto Lezcano and minor leaguers OF David
Green and P Dave LaPoint. Fingers and Vuckovich will win the AL Cy Young
Award for the Brewers in 1981 and 1982, respectively.

1984
St. Louis sends slugger George Hendrick and a minor leaguer to the Pirates
for P John Tudor and Brian Harper. Tudor, at 12-11, was the ace of the
Bucs' staff, which set a record by having the NL's best ERA, though the
team finished last. The 35-year-old Hendrick will play just a half season
in the Iron City before going to California.

1985
The Yankees trade P Joe Cowley and C Ron Hassey to the White Sox for P
Britt Burns (18-11) and minor leaguers Mike Soper and Glen Braxton. Hassey
will come back to New York before the season's start. A degenerative hip
condition ends Burns' career before he has a chance to pitch for the Yanks.

The Indians sign free agent Tom Candiotti to a AAA contract. Candiotti
(9-13 at Vancouver), who has been throwing a knuckler less than a year,
will lead the AL in complete games (17) in 1986.

1986
The Mets trade Kevin Mitchell, a rookie who played six positions for
the eventual world champs, along with prospects Stan Jefferson and Shawn
Abner, and two additional minor leaguers to the Padres for outfielder Kevin
McReynolds, southpaw Gene Walter and a minor leaguer. Mitchell will be traded
to San Francisco during the season, and in two years, the San Diego native
will become the National League Most Valuable Player playing for the Giants.

The Yankees trade Mike Easler and minor leaguer Tom Barrett to the Phillies
for P Charles Hudson and minor leaguer Jeff Knox, and also re-sign free-agent
OF Claudell Washington to fill Easler's DH position.

1989
The Yankees trade minor leaguers Hal Morris and Rodney Imes to the Reds
for P Tim Leary and OF Van Snider.

1993
The Orioles sign free agent 1B Rafael Palmeiro, while the Indians hand
free agent Dennis Martinez a two-year contract worth $9 million. With the
Expos, Martinez passed up his chance to reach the playoffs with the Braves
when he nixed an August 25 trade, exercising his veto rights as a 10-and-5
player. Instead he stayed with Montreal and helped them make their run at
the Phillies.

1994
The Cardinals sign free agent pitchers Danny Jackson and Tom Henke.

1995
The White Sox sign free agent OF Darren Lewis to a 2-year contract.

1996
The Orioles sign free agent SS Mike Bordick to a 3-year contract.

The Marlins sign free agent OF Moises Alou to a 5-year contract worth
$25 million.

1997
The Tigers sign free agent IF Bip Roberts.

The Mariners sign free agent 1B David Segui to a 2-year contract.

The Cubs obtain OF Henry Rodriguez from the Expos in exchange for P Miguel
Batista.

The Twins obtain OF Alex Ochoa from the Mets for OF Rich Becker. Tomorrow,
the Twins sign much-traveled free agent P Mike Morgan.

1998
After being given his last rites, Hall of Fame outfielder Joe DiMaggio appears
to make a miraculous recovery defying the doctors' dire predictions. In
mid-January, the 'Yankee Clipper' is allowed to go home after a 99-day
hospital stay, but will die at his home in Florida on March 8th after a
long battle with lung cancer.

Signing a seven-year deal with the Dodgers, Kevin Brown (18-7, 2.38)
becomes baseball's first 100+ million dollar man. The right-hander, much
to the chagrin of the other owners, is the first major leaguer to earn an
average salary of $15 million per season (7-year $105 million contract).

The Reds sign free agent IF Mark Lewis.

1999
The Cubs obtain P Ismael Valdes (9-14) and 2B Eric Young from the Dodgers
for pitchers Terry Adams and Chad Ricketts, and a player to be named. Despite
missing 40 games, Young swiped 51 bases in 1999.

The Phillies obtain P Chris Brock from the Giants in exchange for C Bobby
Estalella.

The Royals obtain IF Jeff Reboulet from the Orioles for a player to be
named. Tomorrow they trade a player to be named later to the Giants for P
Jerry Spradlin.

2001
The Diamondbacks sign free agent OF Jose Guillen to a 1-year contract.

2002
The Red Sox get 2B Todd Walker from the Rockies in return for 2 minor
leaguers to be named.

The Yankees sign free agent P Chris Hammond to a 2-year contract.

The Elias Sports Bureau announces that Anaheim OF Darin Erstad set the AL
record for consecutive errorless chances for an OF this season and didn't
know it at the time.

2003
In the first move of baseball's winter meetings, the Blue Jays sign free
agent P Miguel Batista to a 3-year contract.

2004
The Blue Jays trade C Kevin Cash to the Devil Rays in exchange for P
Chad Gaudin.

2006
The Astros send 24-year-old OF Willy Taveras, who had a 30-game hit streak
this year, and Ps Taylor Buchholz and Jason Hirsh, their top minor league
pitching prospect, to the Rockies for Ps Jason Jennings and Miguel Asencio.

The Rangers agree to a 1-year contract with free agent P Eric Gagne.

The Twins agree to a 1-year contract with free agent INF Jeff Cirillo.

The Blue Jays agree to a 1-year contract with free agent OF Matt Stairs.

2007
In a six-player deal, the Orioles trade former American League MVP Miguel
Tejada to the Astros in exchange for pitchers Matt Albers, Troy Patton and
Dennis Sarfate, outfielder Luke Scott and third baseman Michael Costanzo. The
acquisition of the four-time All-Star shortstop is the latest move in a
busy off season for Houston which includes signing free-agent second baseman
Kaz Matsui and trading reliever Brad Lidge to the Phillies for Michael Bourn.

Free-agent Aaron Rowland (.309, 27, 89) and the Giants agree to a $60-million
five-year deal. The 30-year-old Gold Glove center fielder is expected to
bat fifth and help fill the void in the outfield created by the departure
of Barry Bonds.

Paul Lo Duca and the Nationals agree to a $5 million one-year deal which puts
the former Mets catcher behind home plate for Washington. The free-agent
backstop became expendable and needed in the same instance when New York
traded Lastings Milledge to get the Nats starting catcher, Brian Schneider.

2008
The Yankees sign their second ace this week as the club reaches an agreement
with free agent A.J. Burnett. The Bronx Bombers ink the former Blue Jays
right-hander to an $82.5 million five-year deal after giving CC Sabathia
$161 million over seven years two days ago.

The Pirates sign Ramon Vazquez, the only player with major league experience
added to the club during the winter meetings, to a two-year deal worth $4
million. The versatile infielder played all four infield positions last
season while compiling a career-high .290 batting average with the Rangers.

Reeling from its second consecutive season-ending collapse, the Mets
continue to overhaul its much-maligned bullpen which had 29 blown saves
in 72 chances (40%). Scott Schoeneweis joins Joe Smith and Aaron Heilman
in becoming the latest New York reliever to be traded as the southpaw is
dealt to the Diamondbacks for Connor Robertson, a right-hander acquired by
Arizona in the Dan Haren deal.

The Royals sign free-agent right-handed reliever Kyle Farnsworth to a $9.25
million two-year contract which includes a club option for 2011. The Yankees
dealt the 32-year-old fireballer to Detroit at the trade deadline last season.

2009
Brandon Lyon (6-5, 2.86) and the Astros finalize their $15 million three-year
deal. The Tigers former right-handed reliever, who saved 26 games for Arizona
in 2008, hopes to be the club's closer, but may be used in Houston as the
set-up man to get to Matt Lindstrom.


2013
The Mariners land the most sought-after free agent when the team signs
Robinson Cano to a 10-year $240-million contract, a value that equals
Albert Pujols' deal with the Angels for the third largest in baseball
history. The Yankees, the 32-year-old's former team who did not want to
commit those kinds of dollars or years for their All-Star second baseman,
recently inked outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury for $153 million (7 years) and
catcher Brian McCann for $85 million (5 years).

