Dec 14

1901
Suffering from too much infighting and no leadership, 4 NL clubs elect
A. G. Spalding as president. Two days later, a court voids the election
and enjoins him from serving, and he will eventually quit.

1904
The Phillies send RHP Chick Fraser and 3B Harry Wolverton to Boston (NL)
for RHP Togie Pittinger.

1911
Pirates owner Barney Dreyfuss proposes that each team in the WS be
required to turn over one-fourth of its share of the gate to the league,
to be divided among the other teams. Until now, 10 percent of the gross
has gone to the National Commission, 60 percent to the players, and the
rest to the 2 pennant-winning clubs. The NL will pass the resolution and
send it to the AL. It marks the beginning of changes that ultimately give
players of the first 4 clubs a percentage of the WS money.

The Earned Run Average is adopted as an official statistic.

1914
Former Giants mascot (and "pitcher") Charlie "Victory" Faust is confined
to the Western Hospital for the Insane. He will die there of pulminary
tuberculosis on June 15, 1915.

1916
The Cubs swap OF Joe Kelly to the Braves for coach Fred Mitchell, who will
become Chicago's new manager.

1917
Connie Mack and the A's need money. He sells P Joe Bush, C Wally Schang and
OF Amos Strunk to the Red Sox for sore-armed P Vean Gregg, OF Merlin Kopp,
C Pinch Thomas and $60,000. Bush must be happy as he lost 14 straight to
the Red Sox (6/2/14 - 7/5/17). Pinch Thomas won't play a game for the A's
and will end up being sold to the Indians in June. With Cleveland, he'll
get into his 3rd World Series, in 1920.

1922
In a joint meeting, a ban on nonwaiver trades after June 15th is approved. The
NL favors a 50-player limit until June 15th, the AL votes for 40. Judge
Landis breaks the deadlock in favor of 40. Compensation of WS umpires is
changed from a percentage of the players' pool to a flat $2,000.

Still smarting over the rejection of the official scorer's decision in the
Ty Cobb case, the national baseball writers' group meets and votes to back
the New York group's protest. Fred Lieb, who had filled in the AP boxscore
giving Cobb the disputed hit, asks Ban Johnson to revise the records to .399
for Cobb. Johnson complains of not receiving boxscores from some writers,
who are appointed by the clubs as official scorers.

1932
John A. Heydler is elected to another 4-year term as president of the NL.

The Senators swap Sammy West, Carl Reynolds and Lloyd Brown, along with
$20,000, to the Browns for former Senator Goose Goslin, lefthander Walter
"Lefty" Stewart and OF Fred Schulte. They also get Earl Whitehill from
Detroit for Firpo Marberry and Carl Fischer.

1933
Washington's Goose Goslin is traded for John Stone of the Tigers.

The Browns acquire OF Smead Jolley, P Ivy Andrews and $40,000 from the
Red Sox for Carl Reynolds. St. Louis then sends Jolley, plus SS Jim Levey,
and P Wally Hebert to Hollywood (PCL) for SS Alan Strange. Strange will go
to Washington for veteran SS Lyn Lary before the end of the season. Levey,
meanwhile, will return east in the Fall to join the Pittsburgh Steelers,
where he will play halfback for 3 seasons.

1934
The Giants purchase prospect Billy Myers, 25, and trade him to the Reds for
vet Mark Koenig and Allyn Stout. Myers, who hit .313 at Columbus this year,
will be the Reds starting shortstop for the next 6 seasons.

1935
Firpo Marberry resigns as AL umpire to sign with the Giants as a
pitcher. He'll get in one game before moving back to the AL with the Senators.

1938
The major leagues agree on a standard ball but disagree on increasing
rosters from 23 to 25 players. Judge Landis will decide on 25. The NL
grants Cincinnati its season opener a day before the rest of the league in
recognition of baseball's 100th anniversary and the 1869 Red Stockings being
the first professional team. The AL permits Cleveland and Philadelphia to
play night games. Will Harridge is elected to a 10-year term as AL president.

1948
It's a busy day for the Phillies as the team purchases Ken Trinkle from the
Giants and trades pitchers Walter Dubiel and Dutch Leonard to the Cubs for
first baseman Eddie Waitkas and pitcher Hank Borowy. Ruth Ann Steinhagen,
a female fan totally obsessed with former Cub Waitkas, is very upset
with the trade and will try to kill him upon his return to Chicago with
Philadelphia. Leonard, the veteran knuckleballer, won 29 games in 2 years
after being purchased from the Senators. He lost a NL-high 17 games this
year, despite a 2.51 ERA. Borowy slipped to 5-10 last year and Waitkus hit
.296 in the PCL.

At the owners meetings two deals are announced. The Indians send Eddie
Klieman, Eddie Robinson and P Joe Haynes, acquired from the White Sox 3
weeks earlier for C Joe Tipton, to Washington for Early Wynn and Mickey
Vernon. Vernon will go back to the Nats in 1950 but Wynn will stay in
Cleveland for 9 seasons and 163 wins.

The AL and NL split on night games. The NL announces that teams can play
5 night games, up from 2, with each opponent.

1949
In a major trade, the Giants get Alvin Dark and Eddie Stanky from the Braves
in a swap for Willard Marshall, Sid Gordon, Buddy Kerr and Sam Webb.

The Cubs send P Bill Voiselle and $35,000 to the Braves for infielder Gene
Mauch. The Cubs had hoped to come away with Warren Spahn or Johnny Antonelli.

1950
The owners choose Lou Perini (Braves), Phil Wrigley (Cubs), Del Webb
(Yankees) and Ellis Ryan (Indians) to select a new commissioner as soon as
possible. In a close vote, 9-7, Happy Chandler's contract was not renewed
three days earlier to serve a second term as baseball's leader.

1953
Detroit's Harvey Kuenn is voted AL Rookie of the Year. Kuenn hit .308 for
the season.

1960
The two new American League franchises, the first expansion teams in over
a half of a century, select their rosters in a player draft. The Angels and
Senators each select 28 players from a pool of AL talent. Among Los Angeles
selections are P Dean Chance, SS Jim Fregosi, 1B Ted Kluszewski and RF Albie
Pearson. Washington selections include P Bobby Shantz, LF Chuck Hinton,
OF Gene Woodling and P Hal Woodeshick.

1961
Roger Maris' request for a $75,000 contract is denied by Yankees GM Roy
Hamey. Hamey trades C Jesse Gonder to the Reds for lefty Marshall Bridges.

1963
The Pirates swap Harvey Haddix to the Orioles for infielder Dick Yencha
and cash.

1964
St. Louis trades P Roger Craig and OF Charlie James to the Reds for P
Bob Purkey.

1965
Eddie Stanky is signed to manage the White Sox.

1966
The Cards send Walt "no neck" Williams and P Don Dennis to the White Sox
for C Johnny Romano and P Lee White. Williams hit .330 in each of the past
2 seasons at Tulsa.

1970
St. Louis OF Herman Hill drowns in the Caribbean, near Valencia, Venezuela,
at age 25. He had been traded from the Twins on October 20th.

1976
Relief specialist Rollie Fingers signs with the San Diego Padres.

1977
The Red Sox trade P Ferguson Jenkins to the Rangers for 23-year-old P John
Poloni and cash. Jenkins, who supposedly had to be awakened in the bullpen
on September 17 and never pitched after that, will partially regain his
form in Texas, averaging 15 wins a year for the next 3 seasons. Poloni will
never play in another big league game.

1982
The Giants trade veteran 2B Joe Morgan and reliever Al Holland to the Phillies
for pitchers Mike Krukow and Mark Davis and minor leaguer Charles Penigar.

The Cardinals swap blue ribbon prospects Bobby Meacham and Stan Javier to
the Yankees for 3 minor leaguers. Some observers think this is a lagniappe
to New York for sending Willie McGee to the Cardinals last year in exchange
for P Bob Sykes.

1985
After a two-year battle with lymphatic cancer, Roger Maris dies in a
Houston hospital at the age of 51. Former Yankees teammates Whitey Ford,
Mickey Mantle, John Blanchard, Bill Skowron, Bob Allison along with Whitey
Herzog will serve as pall bearers.

1994
In the face of the labor uncertainty, the Phillies irk other owners by
signing free-agent Gregg Jefferies to a lucrative contract. The Cardinals
had refused to give the first baseman/outfielder a no-trade clause in their
negotiations to keep him with the Redbirds.

The Yankees obtain P Jack McDowell from the White Sox in exchange for minor
league P Keith Heberling and a player to be named.

The Phillies sign free agent IF Gregg Jefferies to a 4-year contract.

The Indians obtain IF/OF Tim Costo from the Reds in exchange for SS Mark
Lewis.

Labor talks headed by federal mediator Bill Usery break down.

1995
Free-agent Lance Johnson signs a two-year pact with the Mets reportedly
worth more than five million dollars. "Ol' One-Dog" led the American League
in hits last season with 186.

The Indians sign free agent P Jack McDowell to a 2-year contract.

The Orioles sign free agent P Randy Myers to a 2-year contract.

The Red Sox sign free agent C Mike Stanley.

The Marlins sign free agent P Al Leiter to a 3-year contract.

The Rangers sign free agent OF Darryl Hamilton.

The Cardinals trade pitchers Allan Watson, Rich DeLucia and Doug Creek to
the Giants in exchange for SS Royce Clayton.

1996
The Red Sox sign veteran OF Shane Mack to a one-year deal. Mack played the
last 2 seasons in Japan.

1998
The Twins trade OF Alex Ochoa to the Brewers in exchange for a player to
be named.

The Mets trade OF Butch Huskey to the Mariners in exchange for minor league
P Lesli Brea.

The Cubs trade OF Brant Brown, whose error on September 24th almost cost
the Cubs a playoff spot, to the Pirates in exchange for P Jon Lieber.

The Cardinals acquire SS Edgar Renteria from the Marlins in exchange for
SS Pablo Ozuna and pitchers Armando Almanza and Braden Looper.

The Tigers sign free agent C Bill Haselman to a 2-year contract.

The Royals sign free agent C Chad Kreuter.

1999
The Pirates sign free agent OF Wil Cordero to a 3-year contract worth
$9 million.

The Royals sign free agent C Brian Johnson to a contract.

2000
In the wake of the Alex Rodriquez deal, the Rangers send Royce Clayton to
the White Sox for right-handed pitchers Aaron Myette and Brian Schmack.

Cardinals third baseman Fernando Tatis and right-hander Britt Reames are
traded to the Expos for right-hander Dustin Hermanson and left-handed closer
Steve Kline.

The Expos obtain 3B Fernando Tatis and P Britt Reames from the Cardinals
for pitchers Dustin Hermanson and Steve Kline. The Cards, snubbed by Mike
Hampton, pick up a starter in Hermanson. Tatis missed 54 games after an
April 29 groin injury.

The Astros sign free agent P Mike Jackson to a contract.

2001
The Giants sign right-hander Jason Schmidt to a $31-million four-year
deal. The 28-year-old free agent, after being traded by the Pirates, was
7-1 for San Francisco last season.

Needing to fill the void of a left-handed power hitter created by Jason
Giambi's departure to the Yankees, the A's trade lefthanded reliever Mark
Guthrie and minor leaguer Tyler Yates to the Mets for David Justice and
$1.2 million. The Mets had acquired the DH/OF only a week ago in a deal
which sent third baseman Robin Ventura to the Yankees.

A federal judge upholds an arbitrator's decision that ordered major league
baseball to rehire nine of the 22 umpires who lost their jobs following a
failed mass resignation two years ago.

2003
Murray Chass of The New York Times wins the J.G. Taylor Spink Award. He will
be inducted into the writers' wing of the baseball Hall of Fame next summer.

The Blue Jays, Devil Rays and Rockies exchange pitchers in a 3-team
deal. Justin Speier goes from Colorado to Toronto, Joe Kennedy moves from TB
to Colorado, and Mark Hendrickson switches from Toronto to TB. The Rockies
also receive a player to be named or cash considerations from the Blue Jays.

The Orioles sign free agent SS Miguel Tejada to a 6-year contract.

The Devil Rays sign free agent OF Jose Cruz Jr to a 2-year contract and
free agent SS Rey Sanchez to a 1-year deal.

The Royals sign free agent SS Tony Graffanino to a 2-year contract.

The Devil Rays acquire IF Geoff Blum from the Astros for P Brandon Backe.

2004
The District of Columbia Council's decision requiring private financing
for at least fifty percent of the construction costs of the Nationals'
new ballpark may jeopardize the team's tenure in Washington, D.C. The 7-6
vote in favor of this new proviso clearly breaks the agreement major league
baseball negotiated with the city to land the former Montreal Expos franchise
in the nation's capital.

The Angels send P Ramon Ortiz to the Reds in exchange for minor league P
Dustin Moseley. Anaheim also signs free agent P Paul Byrd to a contract.

The Diamondbacks sign free agent SS Royce Clayton to a contract.

The Red Sox sign free agent P David Wells to a 2-year contract.

The Indians sign free agent IF Jose Hernandez to a contract.

The Blue Jays sign free agent 3B Corey Koskie to a 3-year contract.

2005
The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control informs Major
League Baseball of its decision to withhold the required permit which is
needed for Cuba to play on U.S. soil during in the 16-team World Baseball
Classic tournament. The Bush administration, in response to a congressional
request, is concerned revenue from the WBC will wind up in the coffers
of the Cuban government which is contrary to the current embargo in place
against Castro's country.

2006
The Red Sox are the winners in a sealed bid auction announcing the signing
of Japanese pitching ace Daisuke Matsuzaka to a 6-year contract.

The Nationals trade 2B Jose Vidro to the Mariners for OF Chris Snelling
and P Emiliano Fruto.

The Mariners sign free agent P Miguel Batista to a 3-year contract.

2007
It is a busy day on the trading block for the Diamondbacks as the team
acquires All-Star hurler Dan Haren (15-9, 3.07) and right-hander Connor
Robertson from the A's in exchange for Brett Anderson, Dana Eveland, Greg
Smith, Chris Carte, Aaron Cunningham and Carlos Gonzalez. In a separate
transaction, Arizona deals Jose Valverde, the major league saves leader,
to the Astros to get reliever Chad Qualls, second baseman/outfielder Chris
Burke and righty Juan Gutierrez.

To bolster their bullpen, the Rangers sign Japanese reliever Kazuo Fukumori
to a $3 million two-year contract which includes a team option for 2010. In
his 13 seasons in Japan, Kaz compiled a 34-42 won-lost record with 72 saves
while posting a 3.72 ERA in 377 games.

The Cardinals agree in principle to a deal which sends 37-year-old Jim
Edmonds and approximately $1 million to the Padres in exchange for minor
league prospect David Freese. San Diego's need for an outfielder was
accelerated when talks earlier in the day broke off with Mike Cameron,
a free-agent who played centerfield for the team last season.

David Eckstein (.309, 3, 31) and the Blue Jays finalized a $4.5 million
one-year deal which brings the short-statured shortstop north of the
border. The 32-year-old All-Star infielder's leadership and attitude played
an important role on his previous two teams, the Angels and Cardinals,
in winning the World Series in 2002 and 2006 respectively.

The Rangers invited on Edgardo Alfonzo, a career .284 hitter, to spring
training. The 34-year-old former All-Star infielder, who played with the
Mets, Giants, Angels and Blue Jays, spent last season in the independent
Atlantic League playing with the Long Island Ducks.

In an effort to fill the void created by Delmon Young's trade to the Twins,
the Rays sign Cliff Floyd (.284, 9, 45) to a $3 million one-year deal to
play right field in Tampa Bay. The veteran 35-year-old left-handed fly
chaser has been a productive hitter during his 15-year major league career,
but has had difficulty staying off the disabled list.

The Twins sign another former Astros infielders acquiring Mike Lamb ($6.6
million, two-years) after getting Adam Everett yesterday ($2.8 million,
one-year) in the free-agent market. Lamb will provide much-needed offense
at third base and Everett, although a light-hitter, is a slick-fielding
shortstop who will add to the club defensively.

The Royals trade hurler Billy Buckner to the Diamondbacks for switch-hitter
Alberto Callaspo. Kansas City's new player is an infielder who appeared 56
games for the NL West champs, mostly in a pinch-hitting role, and Arizona
receives a pitcher who compiled a 1-2 record with a 5.29 ERA in 34 innings
of work last season.

2009
Randy Wolf and the Brewers finalize their $29.75 million three-year deal. The
33-year-old southpaw, who signed a $5 million one-year free-agent contract
with the Dodgers last season after the Astros pulled a $27 million three-year
offer off the table due to the nose dive in the economy, posted an 11-7
record with a 3.23 ERA with L.A.

2010
After being dealt by the Phillies, Cliff Lee returns to the club to join
National League Cy Young winner Roy Halladay, the key person in the deal
that sent him to Seattle in last season's four-team nine-player trade. The
32-year-old free-agent right-hander, who will be joining unquestionably
the best starting rotation in baseball, agrees to a deal that guarantees
him $120 million over the next five seasons, spurning the Yankees' offer
of $30 million more.

2011
The Orioles announce the signing of Japanese left-hander Tsuyoshi Wada, who
agreed to a two-year $8.15 million deal that includes a $5 million option
for 2014. Baltimore hasn't determined the role the 30-year-old Japanese
hurler will play on the team, but is counting on the hard-throwing southpaw
to be a major upgrade to the O's woeful pitching staff.

Hoping to fill the void after losing closer Jonathan Papelbon to free
agency, the Red Sox obtain Mark Melancon, who had 20 saves during his first
full major league season, from the Astros in exchange for infielder Jed
Lowrie and right-hander Kyle Weiland. In a separate transaction, Boston
signs free-agent utility infielder Nick Punto to a two-year contract as a
replacement for Lowrie.

2012
Kevin Youkilis, best known for being a member of the Red Sox World
Championship teams in 2004 and 2007, signs a one-year $12 million deal
with the Yankees, once consider the 'Evil Empire' by his former club. The
33-year-old infielder, who was traded to Chicago's south side in June
by Boston, will help fill the void at third base while Alex Rodriguez
recuperates from hip surgery.

2013
After inking Curtis Granderson to a four-year $60 million contract earlier in
the week, the Mets sign Bartolo Colon to a two-year $20 million free-agent
pact. The 40-year-old All-Star right-handed starter, who is slated to
replace the innings the team will need as Matt Harvey recovers from Tommy
John surgery, compiled an 18-6 record with a 2.65 ERA in 30 starts for the
A's last season.

Warren Cromartie, a former outfielder and first baseman with the Expos in
the 1970s and '80s, shares a $400,000 feasibility study which reveals
that the return of major league baseball to Montreal would be feasible
if a team plays its home games in a government-financed downtown stadium
with an owner with deep pockets. The report suggests that MLB's national
television deal and revenue-sharing scheme, which has changed radically
since the franchise moved to Washington in 2004, would ensure a competitive
$75-million payroll could be met before a single ticket is sold, with the
government subsidy being repaid within eight years.

2014
In one of his first major actions since becoming commissioner, Rob Manfred
denies Pete Rose's application for reinstatement to baseball, citing a
reversal of the lifetime ban would risk the sport's integrity. The four-page
decision concludes the career hits leader had continued to gamble legally
on horse racing and professional sports, including baseball, disregarding
all the circumstances which led to his permanent ineligibility in 1989.

