Dec 15

1905
After losing a record 29 games this year, veteran righthander Vic Willis is
traded by 7th-place Boston (NL) to Pittsburgh for 3 players: Del Howard,
infielder Dave Brain, who the Pirates acquired from the Cardinals in
mid-season, and Vive Lindaman. Willis will rebound with 4 straight 20-win
seasons.

Boston (NL) continues trading, sending C Pat Moran to the Cubs for C Jack
O'Neill and P Big Jeff Pfeffer.

1909
Kid Elberfeld, who helped make the Highlanders a winner, is sold to Washington
for $5,000.

1917
The Browns ship light-hitting SS Doc Lavan and LF Burt Shotton to Washington
for Bert Gallia and $15,000. Lavan, who made 75 errors in 1914, and Shotton
will both lead their position in errors next year. Doc will return to
St. Louis in a year to play for the Cards.

1920
The NL reveals a most telling statistic, pointing out the changes in the
game:  the use of 27,924 baseballs during the season, an increase of 10,248
over 1919.

The Yankees' Ed Barrow pries future Hall of Fame P Waite Hoyt, C Wally
Schang, lefty Harry Harper and IF Mike McNally from his former Boston team
in exchange for 2B Del Pratt, C Muddy Ruel, P Hank Thormahlen, OF Sammy
Vick and cash. Schang, expected to give more punch to the Yankees' lineup,
will go 0 for 25 before connecting for a hit. Thormahlen, once predicted
to be a star, will win just one more ML game. Umpire Billy Evans commented
about him in the May 17, 1918 (New York) Globe and Commercial Advertiser,
"He constantly kept the ball just far enough outside or inside to bother the
batters ... It was pitching that an umpire must watch closely, for Thormahlen
was constantly getting them into that neutral zone where either a strike
or a ball could be called ... I predict that this fellow will be a star."

Brooklyn sends Rube Marquard to the Reds for Dutch Ruether. Marquard was
in the Charlie Ebbets doghouse after being arrested in a Cleveland hotel
lobby for scalping WS tickets.

The Giants hand a release to 2B Larry Doyle so that he can manage the
Toronto team.

1923
Al Szymanski, 21, who signed with his hometown Milwaukee club in the spring
and was farmed out to Shreveport, is traded. Connie Mack secured the rights
to his contract while he was at Shreveport; at the end of the season he
reported to Milwaukee and hit .398 in 24 games. Scorekeepers change his name
to Simmons. The A's send IF Heinie Scheer and outfielders Wid Matthews and
Frank "Beauty" McGowan to Milwaukee for the Simmons sleeper.

1927
The Browns continue dealing by selling HR-hitting Ken Williams to the Red
Sox. At 38, Williams is still a .300 hitter, but his HR production will
drop to 8.

In a joint meeting, the major leagues turn over $5,000 to the Association
of Professional Ball Players to aid ill or disabled former players.

1928
The Red Sox trade Buddy Myer back to Washington for P Hod Lisenbee, P Milt
Gaston, IF Bobby Reeves, IF Grant Gillis and OF Elliot Bigelow. Myer will
become a top player in the 1930s.

1930
Chief Bender is signed by the New York Giants as a pitching coach. He had
coached baseball at the Naval Academy in 1930.

1932
A joint meeting of AL and NL owners approves the concept of "chain store"
baseball, developed as the St. Louis Cardinals farm system, despite strenuous
objections by Judge Landis.

The Red Sox swap P Ed Durham and infielder Hal Rhyne to the White Sox for
outfielders Bob "fats" Fothergill, Bob Seeds and infielders Johnny Hodapp
and Greg Mulleavy.

The Phils send Ray Benge and $15,000 to the Dodgers for Cy Moore, Mickey
Finn and Jack Warner. Finn will have a great spring and Brooklyn's Max
Carey will admit in April that Burt Shotton outguessed him on the deal.

1933
The major leagues agree on a uniform ball to be livelier than the NL ball
of recent seasons, to match the AL balls. Owners also agree to ban Sunday
doubleheaders until after June 15th.

1938
The Red Sox send Pinky Higgins and P Archie McKain to the Tigers for
pitchers Elden Auker and Jake Wade, and OF Ed Morgan. The Sox also ship OF
Ben Chapman to the Indians in exchange for P Denny Galehouse and SS Tom Irwin.

1948
The Dodgers trade Pete Reiser to the Braves for Mike McCormick. The
marvelously talented but reckless Reiser crashed into too many outfield walls
and, according to Red Smith, was carried off on a stretcher 11 times. 'Pistol
Pete' will play in only 137 games in his two years in Boston.

1955
The Cards sign C Walker Cooper who started his career with St. Louis in 1940.

1959
The Reds send 2B Johnny Temple to the Indians for 2B Billy Martin, P Cal
McLish and 1B Gordy Coleman.

1960
The Reds acquire pitchers Joey Jay and Juan Pizarro from the Braves for SS
Roy McMillan and a player to be named later. Cincy then trades Pizarro and
P Cal McLish to the White Sox for 3B Gene Freese. The 2 pitchers will win
24 games between them for the Sox in 1961, while Freese will have one good
year in Cincy.

The biggest trade in history? The Phils lose more than 2 1/2 inches when
they acquire P Frank Sullivan from the Red Sox for 6'9" Gene Conley. In the
next 2 years, Conley will win 26 games for the Sox, the 3rd Boston team he
will play for:  Conley started with the Boston Braves in their last year
before moving to Milwaukee, and played several seasons with the Celtics as
Bill Russell's backup.

1961
Charles Comiskey Jr sells his 46 percent interest in the White Sox to a
group of 11 investors.

The Braves send veteran minor league 3B Ed Charles, C Joe Azcue and Manny
Jimenez to the Athletics for Bob Shaw and Lou Klimchock. With Eddie Mathews
at 3B, Charles was expendable. He will hit .288 with 17 HRs in 1962, his
rookie year.

The Reds reacquire P Johnny Klippstein, along with OF Marty Keough, from
the Senators. Washington gets C Bob Schmidt and P Dave Stenhouse.

The Mets continue spending, sending Lee Walls and $100,000 to the Dodgers
for Charlie Neal. Neal, the 5th ex-Dodger on the roster, was downed by the
measles in the Spring and a knee spur later on.

1962
The San Francisco Giants trade pitchers Stu Miller and Mike McCormick, along
with C John Orsino, to Baltimore for pitchers Jack Fisher and Billy Hoeft,
and C Jimmie Coker.

1964
Tigers owner John Fetzer announces a 2-year television pact between ML
baseball and ABC-TV. The network pays $12.2 million to telecast games on
25 Saturdays, Independence Day and Labor Day.

The Cards purchase OF Tito Francona from the Indians.

1965
Detroit trades P Phil Regan to the Dodgers for IF Dick Tracewski. Regan
will lead the NL in saves in 1966 while winning 14 of 15 decisions.

1967
The Mets obtain Tommy Agee, the 1966 Rookie of the Year, and utility
infielder Al Weis from the White Sox in exchange for Buddy Booker, Tommy
Davis, Jack Fisher and Billy Wynne. New York's newest additions will both
play a pivotal role in the team's 1969 World Championship season.

Pittsburgh acquires P Jim Bunning from the Phillies for pitchers Woodie
Fryman, Bill Laxton and Harold Clem, and IF Don Money.

The Red Sox trade C Mike Ryan and cash to the Phillies for P Dick Ellsworth
and C/1B Gene Oliver.

1968
The Dodgers send C Jim Campanis, son of Dodger executive Al, to the Royals
for 2 minor leaguers.

1969
National Labor Relations Board accepts the case of fired umpires Bill
Valentine Jr and Al Salerno, thereby issuing a challenge to baseball's
antitrust status.

1970
The Reds trade former ace Jim Maloney to the Angels for Greg Garrett. Maloney
was just 0-1 this year and will do no better in California.

1974
Arbitrator Peter Seitz rules in favors of Cy Young winner Jim Hunter in a
dispute with A's owner Charlie O. Finley making 'Catfish' a very attractive
unrestricted free agent.

1976
Pirates free agent Richie Hebner signs with the Phillies.

1980
Dave Winfield (.276, 20, 87) becomes the highest-paid player in the history
of sports. The former Padres outfielder signs a ten-year free-agent deal
with the Yankees worth a record $16 million.

1981
The Yankees and Ron Guidry agree to a four-year $3.6 million deal keeping
the free agent in New York. During the span of the contract, 'Gator' will
average nearly 17 wins a season.

1983
Commissioner Kuhn suspends convicted Kansas City Royals Willie Wilson,
Willie Aikens and Jerry Martin, and Dodgers pitcher Steve Howe for one
season without pay for their use of illegal drugs. The suspensions will be
shortened by an arbitrator and lifted on May 15th.

1990
AL Cy Young winner and free agent Bob Welch re-signs with Oakland, while
"free look" free agents Jack Clark and Brett Butler sign with the Red Sox
and Dodgers, respectively.

The Mets send veteran lefty Bob Ojeda and minor leaguer Greg Hansell to
the Dodgers for OF Hubie Brooks.

1992
The Yankees sign free agent 3B Wade Boggs to a 3-year contract.

The Rangers sign free agent reliever Tom Henke to a 2-year $8 million
contract. Henke, who started his career with Texas, had 34 saves in 37
tries with Toronto.

1993
The White Sox sign free agent DH Julio Franco.

1994
The Yankees sign free agent SS Tony Fernandez.

The owners approve a salary cap plan by a vote of 25-3, but agree to delay
implementing it so that another round of talks with the players can be held.

1995
The Ted Williams Tunnel in Boston is opened as the Splendid Splinter leads
the way.

The Blue Jays sign free agent C Charlie O'Brien to a 2-year contract.

1997
The Orioles sign free agent P Norm Charlton.

The Marlins trade ace Kevin Brown to the Padres for 1B Derrek Lee and
pitchers Rafael Medina and Steve Hoff. In the next two days the Fish send P
Dennis Cook to the Mets for OF Fletcher Bates and P Scott Comer, and trade
IF Kurt Abbott to the Athletics in exchange for P Eric Ludwick.

1998
The Phillies sign free agent C Tom Prince to a 2-year contract.

The Pirates sign free agent 3B Ed Sprague.

1999
In a swap of unrelated Everetts, the Red Sox obtain OF Carl Everett from
the Astros in exchange for SS Adam Everett and P Greg Miller.

The Royals obtain OF Todd Dunwoody from the Marlins in exchange for 1B
Sean McNally.

2000
In their third free agent signing in the last eight days, the Red Sox come
to terms with pitcher Hideo Nomo signing the 1995 NL Rookie of the Year to
a one-year deal worth 4.5 million dollars.

The Diamondbacks sign free agent OF Midre Cummings to a contract.

The Phillies sign free agent P Ricky Bottalico to a contract.

The Tigers acquired P Matt Perisho from the Rangers for pitchers Kevin
Mobley and Brandon Villafuerte.

2001
The Mariners acquire 32-year-old two-time All-Star third baseman Jeff Cirillo
(.312, 17, 83) from the Rockies in exchange for reliever Jose Paniagua and
minor leaguers Dennis Stark and Brian Fuentes. Fuentes' lone victory in
2002 will come on June 12 against the Rockies.

2002
With the threat of losing their heavy-hitting second baseman, Jeff Kent,
the Giants sign former All-Star free agent Edgardo Alfonzo (.308, 16, 56)
to a four-year deal. The 29-year-old infielder, who was named the Mets
All-time second baseman in August, was not tendered arbitration after
turning down a number of contract proposals from the team.

A four way trade is announced at the winter meetings in Nashville. The A's get
1B Erubiel Durazo from the Diamondbacks. The Diamondbacks get P Elmer Dessens,
who sported the 5th best ERA (3.03) in the NL, from the Reds. The Reds get SS
Felipe Lopez from the Blue Jays. The Blue Jays get Jason Arnold from Oakland.

The Red Sox acquire Jeremy Giambi from the Phillies for P Josh Hancock,
24. For Giambi, it is his 3rd uniform this year.

The Mets trade slick fielding SS Rey Ordonez to the Devil Rays for two
minor leaguers to be named. The Mets also throw in $4.25 million to help
offset Ordonez' $6.25 million salary. Ordonez, who had called the Mets fans
"stupid", departs as 3B Edgardo Alfonzo signs a 4-year deal with the Giants,
opening up the left side of the Mets infield. Nineteen-year-old Jose Reyes,
the Mets top prospect, is expected to have first shot at the shortstop job.

The Padres traded P Brett Tomko to the Cardinals for P Luther Hackman and
a player to be named later.

The Pirates agree to terms with free agent OF Matt Stairs.

The Giants announce that free agent 3B Edgardo Alfonzo has agreed to a
4-year deal.

2003
The Giants obtain OF Dustan Mohr from the Twins for a player to be named.

The Athletics acquire C Michael Barrett from the Expos for a player to
be named.

The Mariners get OF Quinton McCracken from the Diamondbacks in exchange
for IF Greg Colbrunn.

The Mariners agree to a 3-year contract with free agent 1B Scott Spiezio.

The Phillies sign free agent P Roberto Hernandez to a contract.

The Cardinals reach agreement on a 2-year contract with free agent P
Jeff Suppan.

Free agent OF Carl Everett agrees to a 2-year contract with the Expos.

The Pirates and Indians each lose 5 players in the Rule 5 draft. Pittsburgh
C Chris Shelton went to the Tigers with the first overall pick.

2004
Coming off an injury-shortened season with the Diamondbacks, Richie Sexson
(.233, 9, 23) agrees to a $50 million four-year deal with the Mariners. The
29-year-old free-agent first baseman will be reunited with Seattle's new
manager Mike Hargrove, his former skipper in Cleveland from 1997-2000.

After offering a four-year deal worth approximately $53 million, the
Mets announce officially the club has come to terms with Pedro Martinez
(16-9, 3.90 ERA). The former Red Sox ace, who posted a 117-37 record in
seven seasons with Boston, criticizes his former team for not being more
aggressive in retaining his services.

After the District of Columbia Council votes to require private financing
for at least half of the construction costs of a Nationals' new ballpark,
major league baseball suspends all sales of the team's merchandise and
tickets. The decision may make anything with the National League's newest
logo quite a collector's item.

The Diamondbacks sign free agent IF Craig Counsell, a former D'back, to a
2-year contract.

The Red Sox sign free agent P John Halama to a contract.

The Reds sign free agent Ps David Weathers and Ben Weber to contracts.

The Athletics get IF Keith Ginter from the Brewers for P Justin Lehr and
OF Nelson Cruz.

The Cardinals sign free agent C Einar Diaz to a contract.

The Mariners sign free agent 1B Richie Sexson to a 4-year contract.

2005
The Cardinals sign free agent closer Braden Looper, formerly of the Mets,
to a 3-year $13.5 million contract.

The Twins sign 3B Tony Batista to a 1-year $1.25 million contract. Batista
played in Japan in 2005.

2006
Buck O'Neil, who passed away in October, is awarded the Presidential Medal
of Freedom posthumously by President George W. Bush for his "excellence and
determination both on and off the baseball field." Accepting the country's
highest civilian honor on behalf of the Negro league baseball legend is
his 91-year-old brother, Warren.

The Cubs sign free agent P Ted Lilly, 40, to a 4-year contract.

The Angels send P Brendan Donnelly to the Red Sox for rookie P Phil Seibel.

2007
Joining his close friend closer Takashi Saito, free-agent right-hander
Hiroki Kuroda agrees to a three-year $35.2 million deal to pitch for the
Dodgers. The 33-year-old native of Osaka, complied a 103-89 record posting
3.69 ERA in the Japanese Central League during the past 11 seasons playing
with the Hiroshima Toyo Carp.

2008
In possibly the richest contract ever offered to an older player, 46-year-old
Jamie Moyer (16-7, 3.71) signs a $13 million two-year contract to stay with
the World Champion Phillies. In his last outing, the southpaw pitched six
strong innings against Tampa Bay in game 3 of the World Series.

The Tigers improve their infield defense signing Adam Everett to a one-year
contract reportedly worth $1 million to replace the departed Edgar Renteria,
who signed a free-agent deal to play with San Francisco earlier in the
month. The light-hitting infielder, formerly with Minnesota, is known to
be one of the better defensive shortstops in baseball and will improve upon
the 16 errors made at that position last season.

2009
Adam Lind of Toronto wins the Edgar Martinez Outstanding Designated Hitter
Award. The Blue Jays outfielder batted .299 along with 21 homers and 74
RBIs appearing in 95 games as a DH for Toronto.

Bud Selig announces the establishment of a special committee, composed
of managers and longtime executives who will explore "on-field matters",
that the baseball commissioner will chair. The 15 panel members include
four owner representatives - Paul Beeston (Blue Jays), Dave Montgomery
(Phillies), Chuck Armstrong (Mariners) and Bill DeWitt (Cardinals); three
current managers - Tony La Russa (Cardinals), Jim Leyland (Rockies) and
Joe Torre (Dodgers) along with Mike Scioscia (Angels), Orioles president
for baseball operations Andy MacPhail, Indians GM Mark Shapiro, Braves
president John Schuerholz, former Twins GM Terry Ryan, political columnist
George Will and Hall of Famer Frank Robinson.

