Dec 19

1914
Washington manager Clark Griffith meets with Walter Johnson in KC and
convinces the star to re-sign for $12,500, considerably less than his recent
contract with the ChiFeds, with the assurance that Griffith would convince
the Washington management to spring for a bigger contract later. Washington
will later sign Johnson to $16,000 a year for five years. Griffith gets $6,000
from Charlie Comiskey to allow Johnson to repay his ChiFed signing bonus.

1928
Senators player-manager Bucky Harris is traded to the Tigers for infielder
Jack Warner. The future Hall of Famer will replace George Moriarity (68-86,
6th place) as the Motor City skipper.

1934
The Yankees send 5 players to San Francisco as part of the payment for Joe
DiMaggio. He will play another season in the Pacific Coast League and will
report at the end of 1935.

1936
The Braves purchase Eddie Mayo from the Giants. The 26-year-old infielder
will see limited playing time during his two seasons in Boston and hit just
.216, but will become a productive war-time player for the Tigers being
named the Most Valuable Player by The Sporting News in 1945.

1954
Wally Moon (.304, 12, 106) becomes the first Cardinal player to be selected
by the BBWAA as the National League Rookie of the Year. The 24-year-old
center fielder, who replaced Enos Slaughter in the St. Louis outfield,
gets 17 of the 24 writer's votes with runner-ups including future Hall of
Famers Ernie Banks (4) and Hank Aaron (1).

1957
In a continuing family squabble, Charles Comiskey Jr denies his sister's,
Mrs. Dorothy Comiskey Rigney, allegation that he used the "rule or ruin"
tactic to gain control of the club.

1974
The race to sign Catfish Hunter begins in the law offices of Cherry, Cherry &
Flythe in Ahoskie, North Carolina. Yankees and Red Sox representatives are
the first arrivals.

1976
A single-engine plane crashes into the upper deck of Baltimore's Memorial
Stadium, home of the Orioles, injuring the pilot and three others. Minutes
prior to the mishap the plane had buzzed the stadium during the final
moments of the Steelers play-off victory over the Colts.

1983
Cy Young Award winner Vida Blue is sentenced to 90 days in prison, and
recently convicted and suspended 1B Willie Aikens is traded by Kansas City
to Toronto for DH Jorge Orta.

The Pirates sign free-agent OF Amos Otis, a 5-time AL All-Star, to a
one-year contract.

The Tigers sign free-agent slugger Darrell Evans, who hit .277 with 30
homeruns for the Giants in 1983.

1985
The Expos trade P Bill Gullickson and C Sal Butera to the Reds for pitchers
Jay Tibbs, Andy McGaffigan and John Stuper, and C Dann Bilardello.

1986
After finding no other clubs interested in signing him, free-agent pitcher
and 20-game winner Jack Morris agrees to salary arbitration with the Tigers
while at the same time accusing the ML owners of collusion against free
agents. Morris had offered to sign a one-year contract, with salary to
be determined by an arbitrator, with either the Yankees, Angels, Twins or
Phillies, but was turned down by all 4.

Michael Sergio, a Mets fan who parachuted into Shea Stadium during game
6 of the World Series, is sentenced to 100 hours of community service and
fined $500.

1990
At a press conference, Tiger management and WJR announces 1991 will be Ernie
Harwell's 32nd and final season in the broadcast booth. The dismissal of the
Motor City's popular play-by-play announcer starts a furor among fans which
includes a threaten boycott of Domino's Pizza, a business of club owner Tom
Monaghan, and the rise of the slogan, "Say It Ain't So, Bo", which appears on
bumper stickers and T-shirts all over Detroit, referring to Bo Schembechler,
the team president and former University of Michigan football coach.

1991
The Blue Jays sign free-agent veteran DH/outfielder Dave Winfield. The
former Angel hit .286 and 28 homeruns last season.

The Orioles sign Rick Sutcliffe as a free agent. The former 1984 Cy Young
Award winner was 6-5 with a 4.10 era with the Cubs last season.

Former minor league umpire Pam Postema files a sex discrimination suit
against the National League, the American League, the Triple-A Alliance
and the Baseball Office for Umpire Development.

Yankees P Steve Howe is arrested in Montana on a charge of possession of
cocaine. Howe has been suspended from baseball five times for drug and
alcohol problems.

1996
The Orioles sign free agent OF Eric Davis.

The Pirates sign free agent vet SS Kevin Elster.

1998
The Red Sox sign free agent P Mark Guthrie to a 2-year contract.

2000
What youth movement? The Orioles sign free agent P Pat Hentgen to a 2-year
contract and tomorrow SS Mike Bordick will come back to the O's inking a
2-year contract. The day after they will sign another vet, 1B David Segui
to a 4-year contract worth $28 million. Not a good deal: Segui will bat
just 674 times in 193 games.

2001
Several hours before a midnight deadline, Barry Bonds accepts the Giants'
offer of salary arbitration. San Francisco's decision to go to arbitration
avoids a bidding war for their franchise player, and this season's National
League MVP's award will be likely worth at least $20 million for one year
of service.

Free agent Moises Alou (.331, 27, 108) signs a $27 million three-year deal
with the Cubs. The former Astro All-Star's presence in the Chicago line-up,
along with Fred McGriff and Sammy Sosa, will give the team a fearsome
3-4-5 threesome.

The Red Sox sign free agent P John Burkett to a 2-year contract.

The Cubs trade OF Michael Tucker to the Royals in exchange for a player to
be named.

The Rangers sign free agent P Dave Burba to a 1-year contract.

The Angels sign free agent P Dennis Cook to a 1-year contract.

2002
The Yankees sign Japanese OF Hideki Matsui to a 3-year contract.

2003
Agreeing to a $6 million two-year contract with the Angels, Jose Guillen
(.311, 31, 86) will become the team's right fielder next season. The deal
will give Tim Salmon the opportunity to become Anahiem's designated hitter
full-time.

Kevin Millwood agrees to the Phillies' surprise offer of salary
arbitration. As the ace of the staff, the all-star hurler will anchor an
outstanding rotation which includes Randy Wolf, Vicente Padilla, Eric Milton
and Brett Myers.

Gary Deporter, the managing partner of the late broadcaster Harry Caray's
area restaurants, submits the winning bid of $106,600 to obtain the foul
ball that Steve Bartman deflected costing the Cubs a costly out during game
6 of the NLCS. The plan is to have the ball destroyed as an act of exorcism
during a worldwide toast to Harry on his birthday, February 26.

The Cubs obtain OF-IF Jose Macias from the Expos for P Wilton Chavez.

The Yankees sign free agent IF Miguel Cairo to a contract.

The Angels agree to a 2-year contract with free agent OF Jose Guillen.

The Braves sign free agent P Antonio Alfonseca to a contract.

2006
The Cubs sign free agent P Jason Marquis to a 3-year contract.

2007
With a 3,200-word posting on his blog, 38pitches.com, Curt Schilling urges
Roger Clemens, if the right-hander is unable to clear his name, to give up the
four Cy Young Awards won after 1997, the period after he aledgedly starting
taking performance-enhancing substances according to the Mitchell Report. The
veteran Red Sox hurler acknowledged the help the 354-game winner gave him
as a young pitcher, but wanted to stay consistent having noted previously
Jose Canseco should forfeit the 1988 AL MVP award due to his use of steroids.

2008
Agreeing to stay in Anaheim, Juan Rivera (.246, 12, 45) agrees to a $12.75
three-year deal to roam the outfield for the Angels. The 30-year-old
Venezuelan, who was the team's best pinch hitter going 5 for 14, including
two hits which won games, could also be used as the club's designated hitter.

The Dodgers confirmed they have inked their current shortstop, Rafael Furcal,
to a three-year deal believed to worth $33 million. Braves president John
Schuerholz, who believed he had an agreement in place to sign the 31-year-old
infielder earlier in the week, described the negotiation process for the
free agent as dishonest, and said his team would never again deal with the
Wasserman Media Group.

The Marlins come to terms with Josh Johnson, projected to be their No. 1
starter next season. The right-hander, who returned from elbow surgery
in midseason to compile a 7-1 record for the third-place Fish, agrees to
a one-year $1.4 million deal which includes incentives for the number of
games started in 2009.

2009
Scott Rolen agrees to a two-year contract extension to stay with the
Reds, a team to which he was dealt last July by Toronto for third baseman
Edwin Encarnacion along with pitchers Josh Roenicke and Zach Stewart. The
seven-time Gold Glove winner appeared in only 40 games for Cincinnati with
his playing time being disminish after getting hit in the head by a Jason
Marquis fastball shortly after the trade.

2010
The Brewers obtain 27-year-old right-handed starter Zack Greinke, as well
as shortstop Yuniesky Betancourt and cash considerations, from the Royals
in exchange for shortstop Alcides Escobar, outfielder Lorenzo Cain and
pitching prospects Jake Odorizzi and Jeremy Jeffress. The acquisition of the
2009 American League Cy Young winner bolsters an already strong Milwaukee
rotation that also includes Shaun Marcum, a recent acquisition from Toronto
in a deal that sent second-base prospect Brett Lawrie to the Blue Jays.

2011
The Diamondbacks and free-agent Jason Kubel come to terms on a two-year deal
worth a reported $15 million. The former long-time Minnesota outfielder is
expected to add more punch to the reigning NL champs' offense.

After offering a reported posting fee of $51.7 million, the Rangers win
the rights to negotiate exclusively with Yu Darvish, the 25-year-old
right-handed Japanese pitching ace of the Nippon Ham Fighters. Texas now
has thirty days to sign the two-time MVP, who posted a 93-38 record along
with a 1.99 earned run average during his seven seasons in Japan's Nippon
Professional Baseball Pacific League.

