Dec 20

1903
After a two-year absence from the majors, pitcher Kid Nichols signs as
player/manager of the Cardinals. He will win 21 himself, but the team will
finish 4th.

In an unpopular trade in Boston, the Americans send Long Tom Hughes to
the Highlanders for lefty Jesse Tannehill. Hughes, 20-7 for the champs,
had jumped to the AL from the NL Chicago team in 1902. Hughes will come
up short in New York and be shipped to Washington in July, while Tannehill
will win 20 for the Hubmen.

1904
The last-place Phillies send minor-league 1B Del Howard to Pittsburgh for
Moose McCormick, Otto Krueger and 1B Kitty Bransfield.

1921
At the ML meetings, the AL votes to return to a best-of-7 World Series;
the NL votes to keep the best-of-9 format. Judge Landis casts the deciding
vote, and the best-of-7 format is reinstated.

The Yankees raid Boston again, and come away with P Bullet Joe Bush, SS
Everett Scott and P Sad Sam Jones in exchange for SS Roger Peckinpaugh (who
goes on to Washington), pitchers Jack Quinn, Rip Collins, and Bill Piercy,
and $50,000.

1926
In probably the biggest player-for-player trade to date, Rogers Hornsby
is traded from the Cardinals to the New York Giants for Frankie Frisch and
P Jimmy Ring. Hornsby, after 12 years in St. Louis, will play for 3 teams
in the next 3 years. Hornsby and owner Sam Breadon had had an increasingly
stormy relationship, and feelings between Frankie Frisch and John McGraw
were equally as bad. The trade gets complicated when the 'Rajah' refuses
to sell his 1,167 shares of the team stock back to the Redbirds at the
asking price. Frisch will play an integral role in the success of the Gas
House Gang in the 1930's. Thirty years later, Hornsby will call the trade
"the biggest disappointment in my life."

1929
Bill Carrigan has had enough of managing the Red Sox. He quits, and Heinie
Wagner signs on for a year.

1938
The White Sox sell veteran C Luke Sewell to Brooklyn.

1940
Connie Mack acquires controlling interest in the Athletics from the Shibe
family at the price of $42,000 for 141 shares.

1946
With the trade for Al Lopez, the Indians send young catcher Sherm Lollar
and 2B Ray Mack to the Yankees for minor league P Gene Bearden, P Al Gettel
and OF Hal Peck. Peck never played for New York after they acquired him
in June. Lollar will play just 33 games in 2 years, while Mack is swapped
after one game. Bearden, as a rookie knuckleballer in 1948, will win 20
games and lead the AL in ERA.

1960
Charles O. Finley buys the 52 percent of the A's in the late Arnold
Johnson's estate.

1966
The Yankees acquire SS Dick Howser from Cleveland for minor leaguer Gil
Downs and cash.

1973
Siding with the A's, American League president Joe Cronin rules the Yankees
cannot sign manager Dick Williams. The Yankees had announced a deal with
the Oakland's skipper two days earlier.

1978
Don Blasingame becomes the first American not of Japanese descent to be
named as a manager of a Japanese team. The former major league second
baseman will pilot the Hanshin Tigers.

Willard Mullin, 76, the nation's top sports cartoonist and creator of the
"Brooklyn Bum," dies at Corpus Christi, TX.

1980
The Brewers obtain future Cy Young winners Rollie Fingers (1981) and Pete
Vuckovich (1982) in a deal with the Cardinals sending pitcher Lary Sorensen,
outfielder Sixto Lezcano and minor league players Dave Green and Dave
LaPointe to St. Louis.

Unless contracts are tendered to certain veterans by today's deadline, the
Basic Agreement requires they be allowed to become free agents. The Red Sox
will miss the deadline permitting All-Stars Fred Lynn and Carlton Fisk to
be eligible for free agency.

1989
Six months after obtaining him from the Phillies, the Mets trade 2B-OF Juan
Samuel to the Dodgers for 1B Mike Marshall and P Alejandro Pena.

1990
The Chicago White Sox sign veteran knuckler Charlie Hough, a free agent. Hough
spent every year of the 70's with the Dodgers and every year of the 1980s
with Texas.

1993
The Indians trade SS Felix Fermin and 1B Reggie Jefferson to the Mariners
in exchange for SS Omar Vizquel.

The Yankees sign free agent OF Luis Polonia.

The Athletics trade SS Kurt Abbott to the Marlins in exchange for OF
Kerwin Moore.

1995
The Orioles sign free agent IF-OF B.J. Surhoff to a 3-year contract.

The Astros trade P Dave Veres and minor league C Raul Chavez to the Expos
in exchange for 3B Sean Berry.

1996
The Blue Jays send 1B John Olerud and his $5 million contract to the Mets
for pitcher Robert Person. The move leaves 1B open for Joe Carter.

1999
The Brewers trade 2B Fernando Vina to the Cardinals for P Juan Acevedo and
2 minor leaguers to be named.

The Devil Rays sign free agent OF Gerald Williams to a 2-year contract.

The Expos sign free agent P Graeme Lloyd to a 3-year contract.

The Cubs sign SS Ricky Gutierrez to a 2-year contract.

The Mariners sign free agent 2B Mark McLemore and OF Stan Javier to contracts.

2000
After trading their all-star shortstop to the Mets last season, the Orioles
get him back agreeing to a two-year deal with free agent Mike Bordick. The
move will send Melvin Mora, the player obtained from the Mets to replace
Bordick, to the outfield where he is a stronger defensive player.

2001
Last season's American League strikeout leader with 220, free agent Hideo
Nomo (13-10, 4.50), inks a $13.75 million two-year deal with the Dodgers. The
former Red Sox right-hander was the National League rookie of the year when
he broke into the majors with Los Angeles in 1995.

The Braves sign free agent P Albie Lopez to a 1-year contract.

The limited partners of the Red Sox (a family-owned business since 1933)
vote unanimously to sell the team to a group led by Florida Marlins owner
John Henry and former Padres owner Tom Werner. The $660 million price,
plus an assumption of $40 in debt, would double the record price for a
baseball team. Henry also has a one-percent share of the Yankees and is
Boston's managing partner-in-waiting.

2002
After rejecting salary arbitration from the Red Sox, Cliff Floyd (.288,
28, 79), agrees to a $26 million four-year contract deal the Mets. The
30-year-old outfielder played with the Marlins, Expos and Red Sox last season.

Hoping to fill the void after trading Eric Karros to the Cubs, the Dodgers
reach an agreement with 39-year-old veteran first baseman Fred McGriff
(.273, 30, 103) on a one-year deal. The 'Crime Dog', who has also played
for the Blue Jays, Padres, Braves and Devil Rays as well as the Cubs,
is fourth among active players behind Barry Bonds, Sammy Sosa and Rafael
Palmeiro with 478 career homers.

Japan's most heralded player, 28-year-old outfield slugger Hideki Matsui
(.334, 50, 107), reaches a preliminary agreement with the Yankees on a
$21 million three-year contract. 'Godzilla' the three-time Most Valuable
Player of Japan's Central League, rejected the Yomiuri Giants' $33 million
four-year offer opting to play for the Bronx Bombers.

The Braves trade P Kevin Millwood to the Phillies for C Johnny
Estrada. Meanwhile, according to Braves GM John Schuerholz, "The economics
in baseball stink. The economics stink, and if this isn't a clear enough
signal to the doubters and naysayers, to be forced to trade an 18-game
winner to your arch enemy ... The economics stink."

The Cubs sign free agent P Shawn Estes to a contract.

The White Sox sign free agent C Sandy Alomar to a contract.

The Blue Jays sign free agent SS Mike Bordick to a contract.

2003
The Rockies sign free agent OF Jeromy Burnitz to a contract.

2004
The Orioles obtain IF Chris Gomez from the Phillies for cash. They also
sign free agent P Steve Kline to a 2-year contract.

The Reds sign free agent P Kent Mercker to a 2-year contract.

The Angels sign free agent SS Orlando Cabrera to a 4-year contract.

The Rockies and Mariners exchange pitchers, with Aaron Taylor going to
Colorado and Sean Green to Seattle.

The Dodgers sign free agent SS Jose Valentin to a contract.

The Padres acquire OF Dave Roberts from the Red Sox, sending OF Jay Payton,
IF Ramon Vazquez and P David Pauley to Boston.

2005
The World Champion White Sox finalize the trade with the Diamondbacks
which brings starter Javier Vazquez and $4 million dollars to the Windy
City. Veteran right-hander Orlando Hernandez, reliever Luis Vizcaino and
minor league outfield prospect Chris Young go to Arizona to complete the deal.

The Yankees sign free agent CF Johnny Damon to a 4 year $52 million
contract. Damon spurns the Red Sox' offer for less as his agent lowers the
demand for a 7-year contract to 4 years. The Red Sox will reciprocate by
inking Yankee backup catcher John Flaherty. The Sox also sign free agent
P Rudy Seanez to a 1-year $2.1 million contract with an option for 2007.

The Padres trade pitchers Adam Eaton and Akinori Otsuka and minor league
C Billy Killian to the Rangers for P Chris Young, the recently acquired OF
Terrmel Sledge and 1B Adrian Gonzalez.

The Cardinals sign P Sidney Ponson to a 1 year contract.

The Cubs sign free agent Twins RF Jacque Jones to a 3-year $16 million
contract.

The Orioles sign free agent 1B-LF Jeff Conine to a 1-year $1.7 million
contract with an option for 2007.

The Reds re-sign C Jason LaRue to a 2-year $9.1 million contract, to avoid
salary arbitration. The Reds also sign free agent P Chris Hammond to a
1-year $800,000 contract, with a mutual option for 2007.

The Royals trade OF Matt Diaz to the Braves for minor league P Ricardo
Rodriguez.

2006
The Braves agree to terms with free agent INF Chris Woodward on a 1-year
contract.

The Padres sign free agent 2B Marcus Giles to a contract.

The Phillies agree to a 1-year deal with free agent C Rod Barajas.

2007
Dontrelle Willis and the Tigers agree to a $29 million three-year contract
extension. Detroit obtained the affable southpaw, along with Miguel Cabrera,
from the Marlins in a blockbuster trade at the winter meetings for six
very talented prospects including left-hander Andrew Miller and outfielder
Cameron Maybin.

The Mariners and right-hander Carlos Silva (13-14, 4.19) finalize a $48
million four-year contract. The M's expect the 28-year-old free-agent,
formerly with the Twins, to 'bring a quality arm to the starting rotation'
and to be the workhorse of the pitching staff.

Tadahito Iguchi (.267, 9, 43) and the Padres come to terms on a $3.85 million
one-year deal which could amount to more with performance-base bonuses. The
former Phillies infielder will replace a slumping Marcus Giles at second base.

Ron Mahay (3-0, 2.55) and the Royals finalize a two-year $8 million deal. The
36-year-old southpaw reliever pitched a total of 67 innings for the Rangers
and Braves last season.

After his option is declined by the Brewers, Geoff Jenkins (.255, 21,
64) joins the Phillies signing a two-year $13 million contract as a
free-agent. Milwaukee chooses not to pay the 33-year-old outfielder $9
million to keep him with the Brew Crew.

Boss, Jonathan Papelbon's bulldog, ate the ball used to get the final out
of 2007 World Series, according to the Red Sox closer during an interview
with the Hattiesburg American. Teammate Jason Varitek had given the ball
to the reliever when Rockies pinch-hitter Seth Smith struck out to complete
the Fall Classic sweep of Colorado.

2008
The Nationals sign a one-year contract with free-agent hurler Daniel
Cabrera. The 27-year-old right-handed starter (8-10, 5.25), who was
non-tendered by the Orioles earlier in the month after spending five seasons
in Baltimore, has never lived up to his potential given his live fastball
and above-average curveball.

