Dec 22

1915
Organized baseball and the Federal League sign a peace treaty at Cincinnati,
ending their 2-year war. Feds agree to go out of existence, but the ML pay
an enormous price:  $600,000 for distribution to FL owners; amalgamation
of 2 Fed franchises, one each into the NL and the AL; recognition of Fed
players' eligibility and agreement to bid for them in a Fed-controlled
auction. Baltimore, hoping to get the Cardinals, balks, but conferees, eager
for settlement, defer its claims - a decision they will repent at leisure.

1921
Socks Seybold, the holder of the AL season HR record before Babe Ruth,
dies at 51 when his car plunges over an embankment.

1953
Jack Dunn III, whose family successfully owned and operated the Baltimore
Orioles for years in the International League, officially turns the old
team name over to the Orioles.

1959
The upstart Continental League awards its last franchise to the Dallas/Fort
Worth area. Denver, Houston, Minneapolis-St. Paul, New York City and Toronto
will also be represented in the new circuit.

1962
Voters in Harris County (TX) approve a bond issue to complete the financing
of the world's first domed sports stadium which will become home for the
Houston Astros. The structure will become known as the Astrodome, and will
be dubbed the 'Eighth Wonder of the World'.

1980
The Red Sox mail Fred Lynn and Carlton Fisk their new contracts two days
after the Basic Agreement December 20 deadline technically making their
young All-Stars eligible for free agency. Fisk will leave Boston signing
a $3.5 million deal with the White Sox, beginning with the 1981 season.

1982
Lee Mazzilli is traded for the third time this season. The Yankees, who
obtained the Brooklyn native from the Rangers in August for Bucky Dent,
deal the 1B/OF to the Pirates for Tim Burke and three minor leaguers.

1983
Free-agent reliever Kent Tekulve re-signs with the Pirates. In 1983 he had
18 saves and a 1.64 ERA for Pittsburgh.

Pete Rose wins a lawsuit against the Internal Revenue Service and is awarded
a $36,083 tax refund for 1978.

1987
The Yankees send P Steve Trout and OF Henry Cotto to Seattle for pitchers
Lee Guetterman and Clay Parker and minor leaguer Wade Taylor.

1994
The Giants trade pitcher John Burkett to the Texas Rangers in exchange
for minor league infielders Desi Wilson and Rich Aurilia. The latter will
spend nine years in his first tenure in San Francisco becoming an important
offensive cog in the team's everyday lineup.

The Giants trade P John Burkett to the Rangers in exchange for minor league
1B/OF Desi Wilson and SS Rich Aurilia.

The Reds sign free agent P Jack Morris.

1995
After a Southwest Bank investment group promises to keep the franchise in
St. Louis, Anheuser-Busch agrees to sell the Cardinals to the financial
establishment. The price tag of approximately $150 million is considered a
bargain with Forbes Magazine estimating the club's value to be worth twice
that amount.

The Red Sox sign free agent P Jamie Moyer.

The Marlins sign free agent P Kevin Brown to a 3-year contract.

The Phillies sign free agent 3B Todd Zeile.

1997
The Royals sign free agent 1B Hal Morris.

The Mets trade OF Carl Everett to the Astros for P John Hudek.

1999
The Braves obtain 2B Quilvio Veras, 1B Wally Joyner and OF Reggie Sanders from
the Padres in exchange for 1B Ryan Klesko, 2B Bret Boone and P Jason Shiell.

Kip Wells, drafted in the first round by the Chicago White Sox, finally
signs for $1.495 million plus an invite to the White Sox spring camp.

The Expos obtain inconsistent P Hideki Irabu from the Yankees in exchange
for P Jake Westbrook and 2 players to be named. P Christian Parker will be
one of those named.

The Red Sox sign free agent P Jeff Fassero to a contract.

The Orioles promote Syd Thrift to GM replacing Frank Wren, and sign free
agent P Buddy Groom to a 2-year contract.

In an interview in Sports Illustrated magazine, Atlanta Braves P John Rocker
offends virtually every race and ethnic group in a hateful outburst. Community
leaders, media, management, coaches and teammates alike call for action to
be taken against the lefty who had 38 saves for Atlanta this past season.

2000
The Mariners sign Bret Boone to a $3.25 million one-year deal. The former
Padre second baseman played in only 127 games season due to a bruised right
knee which ended his season in late August.

Hoping to fill the void created by the departure of Ellis Burks, the Giants
sign veteran outfielder Eric Davis to a $1.5 million one-year contract. The
Players Choice Awards' 'Man of the Year' had considered retirement, but
the lure of more playing time changes his mind.

2001
Highly sought free agent Chan Ho Park (15-11, 3.50) signs a five-year $65
million deal with the Rangers. The Korean right-hander led the Dodgers
last year in wins, starts, innings pitched, strikeouts and opponents'
batting average.

2002
The Rangers sign free agent P Ugueth Urbina to a contract.

The Blue Jays sign free agent P Tanyon Sturtze to a contract.

2003
The Orioles sign free agent C Javy Lopez to a 3-year contract.

The Athletics sign free agent P Arthur Rhodes to a 3-year contract.

The Brewers sign free agent OF Ben Grieve to a contract.

The Yankees sign free agent P Paul Quantrill to a 2-year contract.

The Braves sign free agent P Armando Almanza to a contract.

The Rockies sign free agent C Todd Greene to a contract.

2004
The Red Sox sign free agent P Matt Clement to a 3-year contract.

The Yankees sign free agent P Carl Pavano to a 4-year contract. The young
ace pitched for the Marlins last year.

The White Sox sign free agent pitcher Orlando Hernandez to a 2-year contract.

No joke. The Cardinals sign free agent P Mike Myers to a contract.

The Padres sign free agent OF Mark Sweeney to a contract.

The Devil Rays sign free agent 1B Josh Phelps to a contract.

2005
After U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control denies
the request to allow Cuba to participate in the World Baseball Classic due
to the possibility of financial gain by the island country, MLB reapplies
after Fidel Castro says his country will donate any money earned from its
participation to victims of Hurricane Katrina.

2006
The Yankees bring back free agent P Andy Pettitte signing him to a one-year
contract. Pettitte has never had a losing or .500 season; only Babe Ruth
can match that among pitchers with 10 or more seasons.

2008
The Yankees avoid salary arbitration when Chien-Ming Wang (8-2, 4.07)
agrees to a $5 million one-year deal to pitch in the Bronx. The 28-year-old
right-handed starter missed the rest of the season after injuring his foot
while running the bases in an interleague game against Houston in mid-June.

2009
Roy Halladay, who was traded by the Blue Jays to the Phillies last week
in a complicated four-team deal, takes out a full-page ad in the Toronto
Sun to thank everyone for their support during his 12-year tenure with the
team. Using the newspaper advertisement he tells the fans he felt "blessed"
to have been part of the organization, and that the city will "forever have
a special place" in his heart.

The Yankees reacquire Javier Vazquez by trading outfielder Melky Cabrera
to the Braves. The right-hander's last performance in pinstripes was less
than stellar, allowing two homeruns, including a grand slam, to Boston's
Johnny Damon, which put game 7 of the 2004 ALCS out of reach and completed
the New York's historic collapse after the team had won the first three
games of the championship series.

Colorado free-agent Jason Marquis (15-13, 4.04) signs a $15 million two-year
contract to become the anchor of the Nationals' rotation. The 31-year-old
right-handed starter, considered a workhorse by his former teams, will be
a veteran presence on staff which featured four rookies and a sophomore
last season.

Garrett Atkins (.226, 9, 48) and the Orioles finalize a $4.5 million one-year
deal after the 30-year-old infielder passes a physical. After his woeful
performance last season, the Rockies, the only team he had ever played with
during his seven years in the big leagues, failed to offer their former
starting third baseman a contract for 2010.

2011
The Cardinals announce Carlos Beltran (.300, 22, 84) and the team have come
to an agreement on a two-year deal, pending the results of a physical. The
34-year-old outfielder, who signed for a reported $26 million, will play
right field allowing Lance Berkman to shift to first base to fill the void
created by the departure of Albert Pujols to free agency.

