Dec 25

1922
On their tour of the Far East, the Herb Hunter All-Americans, with Casey
Stengel and Waite Hoyt among its members, beats a team of U.S. servicemen,
12-5, in Manila. In other games, the All-Americans are the first team of
major leaguers to play a Chinese team, in Shanghai, and also play a Korean
all-star team in Seoul, whipping them, 21-3. The American all-stars also
lost a game in Japan when Zensuke Shimada hit an out-of-the-park homer
against Waite Hoyt and the Mita Club defeated the All-Americans, 9-3. It
was the first loss by a team of touring U.S professionals in Japan.

1927
Future Hall of Famer second baseman Jacob Nelson Fox is born in St. Thomas,
Pennsylvania. 'Nellie', a .288 career hitter playing for the A's, White
Sox and Astros during his 19 seasons in the big leagues, will become the
last active major league player to have Connie Mack as a manager.

1957
With the backing of Representatives Keating and Celler, the minor league
executives urge that ML baseball compensate them for this infringement on
their territorial rights.

1958
All-time career stolen base leader outfielder Rickey Henderson is born in
Chicago. The 'Man of Steal' will end his 25-year Hall of Fame career with
1406 thefts.

1989
Billy Martin, former infielder and 5-time manager of the Yankees, dies in
a car accident in Johnson City, New York at the age of 61. Martin will be
buried in Gates of Heaven cemetery in Valhalla, New York in a plot near
Babe Ruth's. George Steinbrenner, who fired Martin 4 times (he resigned
the 5th time) purchases the plot.

2001
Signing a one-year $4.7 million contract to play for the Yomiuri Giants,
Hideki Matsui becomes the highest-paid player in Japanese baseball
history. The outfielder's salary surpasses the $4 million mark the Orix
Blue Wave gave Ichiro Suzuki for the 2000 season.

2002
In a meeting with baseball commissioner Bud Selig in Milwaukee, Pete Rose
admits that he bet on baseball, "Four or five times a week, but never against
my own team, and I never made any bets from the clubhouse." The account of
this conversation will be in Rose's book, published in January of 2004.

2003
Merry Christmas, Ron. The Indians sign free agent 2B Ron Belliard to
a contract.

2004
The Royals sign free agent P Jose Lima to a contract.

