Dec 28

1926
The NL's 1926 MVP Bob O'Farrell is named to replace Rogers Hornsby as the
Cards manager. The job was reportedly first offered to Bill Killefer who,
out of loyalty to Hornsby turned it down, and quit. Killefer will sign on
as a coach with the Browns.

1944
Former Washington 3B Buddy Lewis wins the Distinguished Flying Cross for
precision flying over the Burma War Theater.

1953
Pittsburgh sends flashy infielder Danny O'Connell to Milwaukee for 3B
Sid Gordon, OF Sam Jethroe, P Max Surkont and minor league pitchers Fred
Waters, Curt Raydon and Larry Lasalle. They also get $100,000 from the
Braves. According to historian Sean Lehman, this is the only six-for-one
trade in major league history and surpassed only by the 7-for-1 deal that
will send Vida Blue from Oakland to San Francisco in 1978.

1956
The NY Board of Estimate votes $25,000 for a survey regarding the Dodgers'
proposed new stadium for downtown Brooklyn.

1957
CBS announces it will not broadcast major league games into any area at
the time a minor league game is scheduled.

In a swap of first basemen, the Pirates trade Dee Fondy to the Reds for
oft-injured slugger Ted Kluszewski.

1983
Free-agent OF Warren Cromartie signs a reported 3-year $2.5 million contract
to play for Japan's Tokyo Yomiuri Giants. The 30-year-old Cromartie, who
hit .278 for the Expos last season, is the best American player to jump to
Japan while still in his prime.

1994
In the century's fourth-largest trade, the biggest since 1957, the Astros and
Padres exchange a dozen players. Houston sends Ken Caminiti, Andujar Cedeno,
Steve Finley, Roberto Petagine, Brian Williams and a player to be named later
(Sean Fesh) for Derek Bell, Doug Brocail, Ricky Gutierrez, Pedro Martinez,
Phil Plantier and Craig Shipley.

1995
Former major league P John D'Acquisto is arrested on charges of trying to
pass off a forged $200 million certificate of deposit as collateral on a
deal at Prudential Securities Inc.

The White Sox trade veteran Tim Raines to the Yankees in exchange for
future considerations.

The Pirates sign free agent 3B Charlie Hayes.

1998
In a great trade for Arizona, the Diamondbacks swap OF Karim Garcia to the
Tigers in exchange for OF Luis Gonzalez. Garcia hit .222 this year for the
D'Backs. The D'Backs will extend Gonzo's contract in 2003 for another 3 years.

The Tigers sign free agent IF-OF Gregg Jefferies to a 2-year contract.

2001
Outgoing New York City Mayor Rudolph Giuliani announces the Yankees and
Mets have reached a tentative agreement with the city to build a pair of
$800 million retractable-roof stadiums. Mayor-elect Michael Bloomberg,
who is concerned if the Big Apple can afford what is believed to be the
largest private-public venture in baseball history, will have final word
on the $1.6 billion cost of the proposed new ballparks agreements.

2005
The Diamondbacks send Troy Glaus and highly touted infield prospect Sergio
Santos to the Blue Jays in exchange for Gold Glove second baseman Orlando
Hudson and starter Miguel Batista. Toronto's active off-season in which the
team has also signed starter A.J. Burnett, closer B.J. Ryan and first baseman
Lyle Overbay convinces the third baseman to waive his limited no-trade clause.

The White Sox re-sign P Jon Garland to a 3-year $29 million contract, to
avoid salary arbitration. Garland would have been eligible for free agency
after the 2006 season.

2006
The Giants sign free agent P Barry Zito to a 7-year $126 million
contract. Several teams, including the Mets, with a five-year $75 million
offer, and the Rangers, come up short.

