Feb 1

1904
The Cards purchase veteran first baseman Jake Beckley from the Cincinnati
Reds. The future Hall of Famer will have 4 decreasingly productive years
in St. Louis before retiring.

1910
Chicago (NL) acquires OF Ginger Beaumont from the Boston Braves for OF
Fred Liese.

1912
Jimmy Doyle, 30, dies after an appendicitis operation. He had only one
full season at third base with the Cubs, in which he hit .282 with 62
RBI. Zimmerman will take over the starting job.

1913
Jim Thorpe signs with the New York baseball Giants. The Indian olympic
hero will compile a life-time .252 batting average during his six seasons
in the major leagues, which includes stints with the Reds and Braves.

1914
In the very first game ever to take place in the Egyptian desert, the White
Sox and Giants play to a 3-3 tie in Cairo. The next day a triple play will
be made in the shadow of the Pyramids. The contests were part of a 56-game
world tour promoting baseball.

1919
After winning an out-of-court settlement of his suit against the Dodgers
for the balance of his salary ($2,150) when the 1918 season ended a month
early, former MVP Jake Daubert is traded to the Reds for OF Tommy Griffith.

1926
Wally Pipp, 33, has lost his Yankee 1B job to Lou Gehrig after 10 1/2 years;
the Reds buy him for $7,500. Pipp had been the Opening Day first baseman
for the past 11 seasons.

The Browns trade P Joe Bush and outfielder Jack Tobin to Washington for
P Tom Zachary and Win Ballou, both of whom will be gone by July. Zachary
will be back with the Senators next year in time to serve up Ruth's 60th HR.

1947
After a meeting in New York's Waldorf Astoria, Commissioner Happy Chandler
announces the creation of a pension plan for major leaguers. Players with
five years experience will receive $50 a month at age 50, and $10 a month
for each of the next five years. The plan extends to coaches, players,
and trainers active on Opening Day. The plan will be funded by $650,000,
with the teams providing 80% and the players the remaining 20%.

1952
The Dodgers report a $24,000 shortfall in 1951 revenue, sparking a New York
district attorney probe. There is a possible error in the WS and post-season
play-off revenues.

1954
In a six-player trade, the Braves deal a pair of southpaws, Johnny
Antonelli and Don Liddle, catcher Ebba St. Claire as well as shortstop
Billy Klaus to the Giants in exchange for Bobby Thomson and backstop Sammy
Calderone. Thomson, who hit the historic walk-off homerun in the 1951
National League playoffs, will break his ankle during spring training and
will be replaced by a promising prospect named Hank Aaron. Giant fans will
howl in protest at the loss of Thomson, but will quiet down when Antonelli
posts a sparkling 21-7 record.

1957
Club owners approve a new 5-year player pension plan, effective April
1st. It offers more liberal benefits and includes all players, coaches,
and trainers eligible for the 1947 plan. The owners reject the players'
request to raise the minimum salary from $6,000 to $7,500.

1959
Zack Wheat, Dodger favorite of the teens and twenties, is unanimously
elected to the Hall of Fame by the 11-member veterans committee.

1962
The NL releases its first 162-game schedule.

1965
The NL clubs adopt an emergency team replacement plan to restock any club
struck by disaster.

C Ed Bailey moves from the Braves to the Giants for P Billy O'Dell.

1970
Former commissioner Ford Frick, Earle Combs and Jesse Haines are selected
by the Special Veterans Committee to be inducted into the Hall of Fame

1973
Commissioner Bowie Kuhn announces the Special Committee on the Negro Leagues
selection of Monte Irvin to the Hall of Fame. The outfielder spent five full
season in the major leagues, and was the first black to play for the Giants

The Orioles sell OF Don Buford to the Fukuoka Lions in Japan.

1976
East Lansing police arrest Dodger reliever Mike Marshall for disobeying
the orders set by the Michigan State University police prohibiting him from
taking batting practice. MSU feared he would hit balls too far and injure
students on an adjacent tennis court. Marshall protests that it is against
his rights as an MSU instructor and files a lawsuit against the school.

1985
In an effort to add some much-needed power to their lineup, St. Louis trades
OF-1B David Green, SS Jose Gonzales, P Dave LaPoint, and OF-1B Gary Rajsich
to the Giants for slugging 1B Jack Clark. Gonzales will change his name
to his mother's maiden name of Uribe, and win the starting shortstop job
with the Giants. Giants coach and resident wit Rocky Bridges will note that
Uribe really is, "the player to be named later." Clark will play a pivotal
role in the Redbirds winning the National League pennant this season.

1993
The Athletics sign free agent 3B Kevin Seitzer.

1995
The owners agree to revoke their arbitrarily imposed salary cap and return
to the old agreement.

1996
The Royals sign free agent P Tim Belcher.

1999
The Yankees trade highly touted third base prospect Mike Lowell to
the Marlins for minor league pitchers Eddie Yarnall, Todd Noel and Mark
Johnson. Scott Brosius' outstanding 1998 performance made the former minor
league player-of-the-year expendable.

2001
Postseason hero Jim Leyritz signs a $500,000 one-year minor league contract
with the Mets. The former Yankee has hit one homerun per every 7.6 postseason
at-bats making it the third best performance for players with five or more
postseason round trippers.

2002
Six-time All-Star Kenny Lofton (.261, 14, 66) agrees to a $1.25 million,
one-year contract with the White Sox. The 34-year-old center fielder, who
has played with the Indians, Braves and Astros during his 11-year major
league career has a .302 life-time batting average. Lofton will end this
year with the Giants.

2003
Red Sox president Larry Lucchino announces four senators, Edward M. Kennedy
D-MA, John F. Kerry D-MA, John McCain, R-AZ, and Tom Daschle, D-SD,
will file legislation nominating Jackie Robinson for the Congressional
Gold Medal. Other recipients of the medal have included statesman George
Washington, boxer Joe Louis, and poet Robert Frost.

2005
A web site claims Yogi Berra has filed a $10 million lawsuit against the
Turner Broadcaster System due to a 'Sex and the City' ad which used the
Hall of Famer's name as a possible answer concerning the definition of
yogasm. The choices included (a) a type of yo-yo trick, (b) sex with Yogi
Berra and (c) what Samantha has with a guy from yoga class.

2006
At a luncheon at Safeco Field, Astros second baseman Craig Biggio becomes
the 41st recipient of the Hutch Award. The prestigious award, named in honor
of Seattle's Fred Hutchinson, a major league pitcher and manager who died
of cancer in 1964, is given annually to a Major League Baseball player who
best exemplifies Hutch's fighting spirit and competitive desire.

2008
In the richest contract ever given to a pitcher, southpaw Johan Santana
agrees to a $137.5 million, six-year deal completing the blockbuster trade
between the Twins and the Mets. In exchange for the two-time Cy Young
award winner, who would be lost to free agency after the season, Minnesota
gets four of New York's highly touted minor leaguers including three top
pitching prospects, Philip Humber, Kevin Mulvey and Deolis Guerra as well
as fleet-footed outfielder Carlos Gomez.

Avoiding arbitration, the Indians sign Casey Blake (.270, 18, 78) to a $6.1
million one-year deal. The 34-year-old third baseman moved to Cleveland's
hot corner replacing Andy Marte, who was injured and then sent back to the
minors last season.

2009
The Braves become the first team since the 1910 Senators to have five
pitchers win 15 or more games in the same season. Joining Tom Glavine,
Greg Maddux, John Smoltz and Kevin Millwood, southpaw Denny Neagle becomes
the latest Atlanta hurler to accomplish the feat when he scatters six hits
over six innings in a 1-0 victory over Arizona.

2010
The Hall of Fame announces Jon Miller is the recipient of this year's
Ford C. Frick Award, which is an honor given for excellence in baseball
broadcasting. The 58-year-old veteran broadcaster, who started his career
with the A's in 1974 and has called games for the Rangers, Red Sox and
Orioles, is the current play-by-play voice of the Giants and ESPN's Sunday
Baseball telecast.

The Reds trade center fielder Willy Taveras and infielder Adam Rosales
to the A's in exchange for infielder Aaron Miles and a player to be
named. Cincinnati, using the money they saved in the deal, agrees to a
$3.02 million, one-year contract with Orlando Cabrera to become the team's
starting shortstop.

2011
Manny Ramirez and Johnny Damon sign one-year deals with the Rays. The
free-agent outfielders, former Red Sox teammates who won two world
championships during their tenure in Boston, will help Tampa Bay fill the
void created by the departure of Gold Glover Carl Crawford.

Wandy Rodriguez and the Astros avoid arbitration by coming to terms on a
$34 million, three-year deal. The 32-year-old southpaw, who has compiled a
62-64 record in his six years in the majors, all with Houston, won eight of
his last 10 decisions posting a 2.03 ERA over his final 18 starts last season.

