Feb 2

1905
Hugh Jennings, now managing Baltimore in the Eastern League, is admitted to
the Maryland bar after completing law studies at Cornell. In two weeks Yankees
OF Dave Fultz, a Columbia graduate, passes the New York bar exam. Fultz will
suffer a late September collision with teammate Kid Elberfeld, breaking
his nose and jaw, and retire at 31. In 1912 he will organize and lead the
Players' Fraternity.

1925
The NL inaugurates its Golden Jubilee Year by holding its spring meeting
in the same room in New York's Broadway Central Hotel where the league was
organized on February 2, 1876.

1926
The NL holds its Golden Jubilee Banquet in New York. Among nearly 1,000
invited guests are 10 players from the 1876 season and 2 umpires, including
Billy McLean, who was the umpire for the first NL game.

1930
The Yankees waive Leo Durocher out of the AL and sell him to the
Reds. Whispered rumors, repeated by Urban Shocker in his 2001 autobiography,
contend that Leo was stealing money and jewelry from his teammates. Allegedly,
roommate Babe Ruth beat up Durocher after a theft of marked money confirmed
his suspicions. The Yankees, according to Shocker, prevail on the rest of
the AL to waive Durocher. [Another story has Durocher, in debt, asking
for a $1,000 advance on his salary from Ed Barrow so he can pay a hotel
bill. When Barrow turns him down, Leo curses him, and Barrow trades him
the next day to the Reds.]

1933
Honus Wagner rejoins the Pirates as a coach and goodwill ambassador.

1936
Ty Cobb, Babe Ruth, Honus Wagner, Walter Johnson and Christy Mathewson are the
first five men elected by the baseball writers into baseball's new Hall Fame,
which is scheduled to be opened in 1939 as part of the game's celebration
of its centennial. A claim made by the former 1905 Mills Commission, that
proves to be erroneous, suggests that the national pastime was invented by
Civil War hero Abner Doubleday in Cooperstown, making the small village
in upstate New York the perfect place for the induction of the legendary
ballplayers. Active players also are eligible in this first election, with
Hornsby finishing 9th, Cochrane 10th, Gehrig 15th, and Foxx 19th. Tainted
former star Hal Chase receives 11 votes for 25th place, and Joe Jackson
has 2 votes to tie for 36th place.

1943
After experimenting with a vest worn over knit jerseys, the Cubs return
to conventional baggy flannels for 1943. The outfitting change saves the
organization $2,000 on the cost for uniforms.

1944
The leagues meet at New York to discuss postwar action. They decide players
with war service will be guaranteed 30 days of trial at pay and restrictions
of their release or assignment. Military service will count as playing time.

1949
Brothers Bill and Charlie DeWitt gain control of the Browns by acquiring
57 percent of the stock from Dick Muckerman for $1 million.

1950
At a Boston sports writers dinner, infielder Bobby Doerr receives the Fred
Hoey Award, given by the scribes in memory of the first full-time broadcaster
for both the Red Sox and the Braves. The scrappy second baseman's friend
and BoSox teammate, Ted Williams, surprises the gathering by attending the
event wearing a tie.

The TV show WHAT'S MY LINE premieres with Phil Rizzuto as the very first
mystery guest.

1954
Mickey Mantle has his second operation since the end of last season, this
one to remove a cyst behind the right knee.

1964
The Hall of Fame Special Veterans Committee tabs Red Faber, Burleigh Grimes,
Tim Keefe, Heinie Manush, John Montgomery Ward, and Miller Huggins for
induction, the biggest veterans class ever. Keefe and Ward were teammates
and brothers-in-law, with Ward married to the famous actress Helen Dauvrey
and Keefe married to her sister Clara Gibson.

1969
Pitchers Stan Coveleski and Waite Hoyt are voted into the Hall of Fame by
the Special Veterans Committee.

1970
The Pirates trade Bo Belinsky to the Reds for Dennis Ribant.

1972
Former American League president William Harridge, Lefty Gomez and Ross Youngs
are selected by the Special Veterans Committee to be enshrined in Cooperstown.

1976
With his election into Cooperstown, umpire Cal Hubbard becomes the only
person to be elected to both the baseball and football Halls of Fame. The
big man from Keytesville, Missouri, who was named All-time NFL's offensive
tackle, played with the Giants, Packers and Pirates (Steelers) during his
ten-year career in the National Football League and was inducted into the
pro gridiron Hall of Fame in 1966. Along with Hubbard, Fred Lindstrom and
one time career homerun champion Roger Connor are elected to the Hall of
Fame. The Waterbury Republican-American, the slugger's home town newspaper,
had heavily lobbied for their native son after Hank Aaron passed Babe Ruth's
record in 1974.

1987
The Braves trade Craig McMurty to the Blue Jays for second baseman Damaso
Garcia and pitcher Luis Leal. The right-handers will never pitch for the
team to which they are dealt, and Garcia will hit .117 in 21 games before
being released by Atlanta.

Three-time 20-game winner Dennis Leonard, who returned to the majors
last season after a 3-year absence due to a knee injury, announces his
retirement. Leonard was 8-13 with a 4.44 ERA for the Royals in 1986.

1989
Bill White, a 6-time All-Star and longtime Yankees broadcaster, is elected
president of the National League. He becomes the highest-ranking black
official in American professional sports.

1993
Marge Schott is suspended for one year by major league baseball for bringing
"disrepute and embarrassment" to the national pastime. The Cincinnati Reds
owner has repeatedly caused an uproar with her racial and ethnic remarks.

1998
Yankees GM Bob Watson announces his resignation. He is replaced by 30-year-old
Brian Cashman.

1999
Padres' outfielder Greg Vaughn becomes the first player in major league
history to hit 50 homeruns in a season and then be traded. The slugger
is dealt to the Reds along with Mark Sweeney for Reggie Sanders, Damian
Jackson and Josh Harris.

2000
The Rockies sign free agent OF Darren Bragg to a contract.

The Milwaukee Brewers sign pitcher Juan Acevedo to a two-year contract.

2001
It will take approximately seven more feet to hit a homerun at Camden Yards
this season as a result of the Orioles moving home plate. The new alignment
of the field will also cut down the amount of foul territory available with
the foul poles being almost flush against the left and right-field corners.

2003
Red Sox Manager Grady Little, knuckleballer Tim Wakefield and first-base
coach Dallas Williams appear at the Atrium Mall in Newton modeling the team's
new look, including solid red socks. The Red Sox socks have had very little
red in recent years and haven't been totally red for over fifty years.

The Cardinals sign free agent OF Orlando Palmeiro to a contract.

The Red Sox announce that Jackie Robinson will be nominated for the
Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of his achievements as the first
black player in modern major league baseball.

2004
The Tigers sign free agent C Ivan Rodriguez to a 4-year contract.

The Athletics sign free agent 1B Eric Karros to a contract.

2005
The much heralded Sammy Sosa trade to the Orioles is finalized as commissioner
Bud Selig approves the deal and the 36-year-old slugger passes a physical. The
Cubs exchange "Slammin' Sammy" for second baseman Jerry Hairston Jr and
two minor-leaguers (IF Mike Fontenot and P Dave Crouthers) and agree to
pay Baltimore $16.15 million of the remaining $25 million left on a $72
million, four-year contract signed in 2003. After the trade is completed
Chicago signs free agent OF Jeromy Burnitz to a contract.

The Marlins sign free agent P Jim Mecir to a contract.

2006
The Dodgers extend the contract of announcer Vin Scully through 2008, which
will be his 59th year with the Dodgers. Scully, 78, began announcing for
the Dodgers in 1950.

The Nationals sign free agent P Felix Rodriguez to a contract.

2008
Filling a tall order, the Nationals avoid arbitration with Jon Rauch signing
the 6' 11" pitcher to a $3.2 million two-year deal. The right-handed reliever,
who led the big leagues with 88 appearances, compiled an 8-4 record with
four saves while posting a 3.61 ERA in 87 1/3 innings of work.

2009
According to a report in The Sports Business Journal, MLB tax documents
for the fiscal year ending October 31, 2007 shows Bud Selig receiving a
salary of $18.35 million. The compensation package, if correctly stated,
would make the commissioner better paid than most of the superstars in
the game at the time, with exception of Jason Giambi, Alex Rodriguez,
Derek Jeter and Roger Clemens, all of whom were on the Yankees' payroll.

2011
Alexei Ramirez and the White Sox agree to a four-year $32.5 million contract
extension and a $10 million team option for an additional year. Earlier in the
off-season, the Pale Hose picked up his option for 2011, coming to terms with
the 29-year-old good-hitting shortstop with a base salary of $2.75 million.

