Feb 10

1910
Major League owners are now forbidden to own more than one baseball franchise.

1916
C Chief Meyers is waived to Brooklyn by the Giants where he rejoins Wilbert
Robinson. The Braves also claim him. Owners Ebbets and Haughton toss a coin
to determine Meyers' fate, and Ebbets wins the right to sign him.

In a sweet deal, the Cubs send cash to the sinking Chicago Whales (Federal
League) and bring back Three Finger Brown, Clem Clemens, Mickey Doolan,
Bill Fischer, Max Flack, Claude Hendrix, Les Mann, Dykes Potter, Joe Tinker,
Rollie Zeider, and George McConnell.

1920
The spitball, shineball, and emeryball are outlawed by the American
and National League Joint Rules Committee. Seventeen pitchers, including
Burleigh Grimes, who will be the last player to legally throw a doctored
pitch, are allowed to keep throwing the banned pitches until they retire.

At a joint meeting in Chicago, all bleacher prices are raised to 50 cents,
pavilion to 75 cents, and grandstand to $1.00. Clubs may set aside bleacher
space for kids under 14 at 15 and 25 cents if they wish. The May 15th -
August 30th player limits are raised from 21 to 25. The AL prohibits player
transfers after July 1st; the NL, after August 20th.

Lee Magee, "wanting to make a clean breast of things," admits to NL Prexy
Heydler and Cubs head William Veeck that he tried to "toss" a game with the
Braves when he was with the Reds, but that the Reds won in the 13th. Heydler
will later testify on June 8th that Magee told him he became suspicious
that Hal Chase had double-crossed him and so he stopped payment on the check.

1923
C Muddy Ruel and P Allan Russell go from the Red Sox to Washington for C
Val Picinich and outfielder Howard Shanks and Ed Goebel.

1925
At the AL meeting, a plan is adopted to alternate the site of future
World Series openers by league rather than deciding it by a coin toss,
with games 1, 2, 6, and 7 in one park and 3, 4, 5 in the other, unless a
ban on Sunday baseball interferes in one city. The clubs finishing 4th in
the AL will henceforth share in the WS pool. WS umps get a raise to $2,500,
while umps in the city series will earn $700. The plan was proposed in 1924,
but formally adopted at this meeting.

1945
Thirty-seven-year-old Jimmie Foxx signs with the NL Philadelphia Blue
Jays. Foxx hit just .050 last year with the Cubs.

1948
The Phils acquire veteran SS Eddie Miller from the Braves, sending OF Johnny
Wyrostek in exchange.

1950
The Reds sell Johnny "double-no-hit" Vander Meer to the Cubs for an
undisclosed amount of cash.

1953
The White Sox send pitchers Marv Grissom, Bill Kennedy and Hal Brown to
the Red Sox for 33-year-old infielder Vern Stephens. A perennial All-Star
in the 1940s, Stephens' best years are behind him.

1971
The Yankees announced Bill White will join Phil Rizzuto and Frank Messer on
the WPIX broadcast team becoming the first black to do play-by-play regularly
for a major-league baseball team. The former All-Star first baseman will
stay in the booth for 18 seasons, leaving in 1989 to serve as president of
the National League.

Los Angeles trades OF Andy Kosco to Milwaukee for P Al Downing. Downing
will go on to win 20 games for the Dodgers in 1971.

1975
The Special Committee on the Negro Leagues picks William "Judy" Johnson
for the Hall of Fame.

1982
The Mets agree to a $10 million five-year deal with George Foster completing
the trade with the Reds which sent Jim Kern, Greg Harris and Alex Trevino to
Cincinnati. During his four-and-half year tenure with the team, the perennial
all-star outfielder proves to be a major offensive disappointment, and will
be released outright during the 1986 season after he accuses the club of
racism for benching him in favor of Kevin Mitchell, a fellow African-American.

1984
After five months of discussion, the Mets and Keith Hernandez, who was
eligible for free-agency at the end of the season, come to terms on
an $8 million, five-year contract. The deal makes the first baseman the
second-highest-paid player in franchise history, earning slightly less than
George Foster's $10 million five-year pact signed exactly two years ago.

2000
After receiving a 'hometown' discount, the Reds trade pitchers Brett Tomko
and Jake Meyer, center fielder Mike Cameron, and infielder Antonio Perez
to the Mariners in exchange for the services of Ken Griffey Jr. Cincinnati
signs the 30-year-old superstar outfielder to a nine-year $116.5 million
deal. The Reds resisted giving up INF Pokey Reese.

2002
The Astros sign free agent P Hipolito Pichardo to a 1-year contract.

2005
Curt Schilling donates the blood-stained sock he wore in game 2 of the
World Series to the Hall of Fame. The sock presently is part of a Red Sox
memorabilia tour which also includes Derek Lowe's game 4 jersey, Series MVP
Manny Ramirez' bat used to tie a postseason record with a 17-game hitting
streak, and Keith Foulke's spikes worn as he throws the ball for the final
out as well as the ball itself on loan from Doug Mientkiewicz.

In his first public appearance, Yankee first baseman Jason Giambi apologizes
to his teammates, Yankee fans and to baseball fans everywhere for letting
them down last season. The All-Star first baseman, however, never uses the
word steroids as he accepts full responsibility for the controversy.

Avoiding arbitration, Roy Oswalt (20-10, 3.49) and the Astros agree to
a two-year, $16.9 million deal. The 27-year-old right-hander has posted a
63-27 (.700) during his four-year tenure in Houston.

2006
Although recently acquired Alfonso Soriano (.268, 36, 104) of the Nationals
loses his salary arbitration case. The former Texas Rangers infielder sets a
record for the highest salary ever awarded by the process. The All-Star second
baseman, who is being asked to play the outfield in Washington, will receive
$10 million (he asked for $12 million) surpassing the $8.2 million awarded
to Andruw Jones in his successful 2001 arbitration hearing with the Braves.

2009
The Rangers announce the signing of Andruw Jones to a minor League contract
with an invitation to spring training. The ten-time Gold Glove center
fielder, trying to restore his reputation after two horrendous seasons with
the Dodgers, will try to join the crowded Texas outfield which includes
David Murphy in left, Josh Hamilton in center, Nelson Cruz in right and
Marlon Byrd slotted to get substantial playing time in all three positions.

2011
Avoiding arbitration, Josh Hamilton agrees to a $24 million, two-year
contract with the Rangers. The American League MVP, despite missing the
last month of the regular season due to broken ribs, hit a major league
best .359 along with 32 homers and 100 RBIs.

2015
At a meeting initiated by Alex Rodriguez, the much-malaigned Yankee
slugger apologizes to the team's front office for the turbulence which
has swirled around the organization during the last few years, according
to a joint statement released by the team. The attendees for the 'honest
and frank discussion' of the issues included managing general partner Hal
Steinbrenner, club president Randy Levine, general manager Brian Cashman,
assistant GM Jean Afterman and Jim Sharp, A-Rod's legal counsel.

