Feb 12

1912
The Braves send vet Mike Donlin to the Pirates for OF Vin Campbell. After
one season with the Bucs, Donlin will be waived to the Phils but will refuse
to report and will elect to retire.

1920
Frank "Home Run" Baker's wife, Ottalee, dies at 31, leaving 2 small
children. Baker will miss the entire season to stay home and take care of
the children, returning in 1921 to hit .294. Baker also missed the 1915
season, preferring to hold out rather than sign with the A's.

In a defeat for AL president Johnson, Carl Mays is reinstated, and the
Yankees' 3rd place finish is recognized. Furthermore, a two man committee
is appointed to review all fines over $100 and suspensions of more than
10 days. Dissatisfaction with the National Commission system comes to a
head. The NL votes 6-2 for a one-man commission; the AL votes 6-2 for the
status quo. Chairman Garry Herrmann resigns, stating his belief that no
club owner should serve on the governing board. When the 2 leagues cannot
agree on a chairman, it is left to the league presidents to decide disputes.

1924
The National League announces it will join the AL in awarding a thousand
dollars to the player selected by writers as the league's Most Valuable
Player. Dazzy Vance, who posts a 28-6 record along with an ERA of 2.16 for
the Dodgers, easily outpoints Rogers Hornsby to become the Senior Circuit's
first MVP.

1930
After leading his A's to a world championship, Connie Mack becomes
the first Philadelphia sports figure to receive the prestigious Edward
W. Bok Prize. The honor, now known as the Philadelphia Award, recognizes
distinguished Philadelphians for their achievements in education, industry,
law, politics, science, medicine, philosophy and the creative arts.

1932
George Weiss, GM of the Baltimore Orioles (International League), joins
the Yankee front office. He will eventually run the club during its years
under Casey Stengel's managing.

1940
The Dodgers purchase OF Joe Vosmik from the Red Sox.

1942
Former Texarkana outfielder Gordon Houston is the first professional
ballplayer to be killed in WW II. The minor league batting champion, who
became a full-time fighter pilot, following the attack on Pearl Harbor,
dies at the age of 25 when his Republic P-43 Lancer crashes at Washington's
McChord Field, after leading a sortie along the West Coast, looking for
Japanese submarines.

1944
Bob Coleman, who filled in for Casey Stengel last season when the Boston
skipper suffered a broken leg when hit by a taxi cab trying to cross a
street, is named to replace the 'Old Perfessor' as the manager of the
Braves. Considered one of the most successful managers in minor league
history (after a 23-year run in the minors), the 54-year-old Indiana native
could not work his magic with the wartime club, and after finishing sixth
followed by a slow start in 1945, the former big league catcher will be
replaced by Del Bissonette, one of his coaches.

1955
Willie Mays and Roberto Clemente hit crucial HRs to lead Santurce (Puerto
Rico) to a 4-2 win over Venezuela in the Caribbean Series. Mays' HR comes
in the 11th.

1980
The AL's offer to buy out the remaining 8 years of the Oakland A's lease
at the Oakland Coliseum expires, effectively blocking the sale of the club
from Charlie Finley to oil man Marvin Davis. Davis had planned to move the
club to Denver, but the Oakland Coliseum Board, backed by the city council,
refused the league's $4 million offer.

1981
Arbitrator Raymond Goetz supports the Players' Association and declares Red
Sox catcher Carlton Fisk a free agent on the grounds that the club mailed
his 1981 contract 2 days after the December 20th deadline.

1988
The Padres trade reliever Rich Gossage to the Cubs for IF Keith Moreland
in a deal that also includes a pair of minor leaguers.

1993
The Royals trade IF Gregg Jefferies and minor league OF Ed Gerald to the
Cardinals in exchange for OF Felix Jose and IF-OF Craig Wilson.

1999
The Padres sign 37-year-old country singer Garth Brooks and invite him to
spring training camp as a non-roster player.

2002
With unanimous approval of the sale of the Florida Marlins to the former
owner of the Montreal Expos, Jeffrey Loria, for $158.5 million and Major
League Baseball's acquisition of the Montreal franchise (this is the first
time in its history that Major League Baseball will own a team) for $120
million, personnel changes are announced. (The difference will be made up
with a loan from Major League Baseball.) The Expos name Frank Robinson as
manager, Tony Tavares as president of the club with Omar Minaya becoming
the major leagues' first Hispanic general manager, and south of the border
former Expo manger Jeff Torborg will manage the Marlins with former Expos
interim general manager Larry Beinfest as the GM and David Samson will take
over the duties of team president.

2003
Federal Judge James Holderman has given the Cubs and the owners of rooftop
bleachers which provide fans a view of Wrigley Field a year to settle their
dispute. The team believes the seating provided above the field via rooftops
directly compete with the club for ticket sales revenue and the surrounding
neighbors, in turn, have not been sympathetic to team's expansion plans.

2006
The Reds sign free agent 1B Scott Hatteberg to a contract.

2007
The Major League Baseball Players Association asks the 9th U.S. Circuit Court
of Appeals to reconsider its 2-1 decision which would allow the names and
urine samples of more than 100 players who tested positive for performance
enhancing drugs to be made available to authorities investigating the use of
steroids in baseball. The 1993 samples were collected by MLB in an effort
to gauge the prevalence of steroid use with players and owners agreeing
the results would be confidential.

After a year of negotiations, an agreement is reached on the sale of the
Time Warner Braves to Liberty Media. Seventy percent the owners must approve
the deal which includes the retention of general manager John Schuerholz
and manager Bobby Cox.

2008
The Twins, in an effort to add experience to a young rotation, sign Livan
Hernandez (11-11, 4.93) to a $5 million, one-year deal with an additional
$2 million in performance bonuses. The 32-year-old right-hander from Cuba
will also add innings to a staff depleted due to the departures of starters
Johan Santana and Carlos Silva.

2009
Three days after Alex Rodriguez apologizes for using steroids, commissioner
Bud Selig chastises the Yankee superstar, and all the other players who
used such substances, for bringing shame to the game. The third baseman's
apology followed a SI.com report that he was one of 104 players who tested
positive in tests taken in 2003 to determine the extent of steroid use in
the national pastime.

Ervin Santana avoids arbitration agreeing to a deal with the Angels which
could be worth $42 million over the next five years. The 26-year-old
right-hander, who posted a 16-7 record with a 3.49 ERA for the AL West
Champions last season, is the youngest active hurler with 50 career victories
(51-37).

Dan Uggla (.260, 32, 92), eligible for arbitration for the first time,
is awarded $5.35 million by the process. The All-Star second baseman, who
has averaged 30 homeruns and 90 RBIs his first three seasons in the majors,
rejected the Marlins' offer of $4.4 million.

Jose Offerman, a former All-Star major league infielder with the Red Sox
and Dodgers, is sued by John Nathans for his bat-wielding attack at a minor
league game in Bridgeport, Connecticut. The Bluefish catcher is seeking
$4.8 million in damages against the Long Island Ducks player claiming the
2007 incident left him with career-ending injuries which include inner ear
damage, vertigo, headaches and post-concussion syndrome.

The Brewers sign Braden Looper as a free agent.

2010
Corey Hart (.260, 12, 48) is awarded a raise from $3.25 million to $4.8
million in the Brewers' first salary arbitration hearing in a dozen
years. In the first case to use the process this year, Milwaukee's offer
of $4.15 million to their 27-year-old right-fielder, an All-Star in 2008,
was rejected by a panel of arbitrators.

Tim Lincecum, two-time reigning NL Cy Young Award winner, reaches a
preliminary agreement on a $23 million, two-year deal with the Giants prior
to the start of a scheduled arbitration hearing. The 25-year-old right-hander
has compiled a 40-17 record along with an ERA of 2.90 ERA during his three
big league seasons with San Francisco.

2011
"Doris From Rego Park" makes its debut on Jonathan Schwartz' weekend program
on WNYC-FM. The song, written and performed by Don Rosler, is a tribute to
Doris Bauer, the Mets fan who became a New York institution as a late-night
caller to WFAN sports radio before she died in 2003.

2014
Derek Jeter, who will turn 40 in June, announces the 2014 season will be
his final one, informing his fans via a lengthy Facebook post. The 13-time
All-Star shortstop acknowledged that his numerous injuries have taken their
toll, making the game more of a struggle and less enjoyable.

2016
Jenrry Mejia becomes the first player to receive a lifetime ban for three
failed tests for performance-enhancing substances, after testing positive
for boldenone, a steroid that has been used in horse racing. The 26 year-old
Mets former closer claims that he only failed one test, states the second
sets of results to be inaccurate, and believes that MLB fabricated the
latest violation to remove him from the sport.

