Feb 17

1909
The NL deprives umpires of the power to fine players and decrees that relief
pitchers must retire at least one batter before being relieved.

The Yankees sell 3B Wid Connors to the Washington Senators.

1924
Frank Chance, signed as White Sox manager three months ago, resigns because
of illness. Coach Johnny Evers is named acting manager until Chance returns,
but the former Cubs star never recovers, and dies on September 24, 1924.

1937
Babe Dahlgren is bought by the Yankees from the Red Sox. The California
native will become the player who replaces Lou Gehrig.

1943
Joe DiMaggio, drawing $43,500 from the Yankees, trades in his salary for the
$50 a month as an army enlisted man. DiMag, in his customary quiet style,
gives no notice to the club. He will not play for the Yankees again until
1946. Although the Bronx Bomber outfielder asked for no special treatment,
he will spend most of his time out of harm's way playing baseball in America.

1944
Connie Mack brings back Frankie Hayes to the A's, trading P Sam Zoldak and
minor leaguer Barney Lutz to the Browns for the catcher.

1953
The Reds sell veteran Johnny Schmitz to the New York Yankees. It's his 2nd
time in pinstripes.

1955
The Orioles get P Erv Palica from the Dodgers for 1B Frank Kellert and
cash. This replaces the Preacher Roe deal, which fell through when the
Brooklyn lefty announced his retirement.

1959
The Yankees invite Australian cricket player Norman O'Neill for a tryout at
SS. U.S. Davis Cup captain Billy Talbert, while playing tennis in Australia,
arranges the deal after hearing of O'Neill's prowess.

1964
White Sox shortstop Luke Appling is elected to the Hall of Fame by a special
vote. In 1953, Appling's first year of eligibility for Cooperstown, the Sox
great received just 2 votes. 'Old Aches and Pains' holds the single-season
highest average for his position hitting .388 in 1936.

1965
Commissioner Ford Frick suspends U.S.-Japan baseball relations until the
dispute over Masanori Murakami's contract with the Giants is resolved.

1971
Boston's Carl Yastrzemski signs what is believed to be the richest player
contract in baseball history:  3 years for a total of $500,000.

1976
Future National League Cy Young Award winner Mike Scott pitches a 3-0
perfect game for Pepperdine against California Lutheran University. The
right-hander, who will throw a no-hitter as a major leaguer for the Astros,
will be selected by the Mets in the second round in the June draft.

1980
While taping separate interviews at KNBC-TV studios in Burbank, California
Giants coach Jim Lefebvre and Dodgers manager Tommy Lasorda trade punches
after a brief argument, leaving Lasorda with a bloody lip. Lefebvre had
been a Dodger coach in 1979 until he was fired by Lasorda.

1987
Yankee first baseman Don Mattingly wins his $1.975 million arbitration case
breaking the record for the largest amount ever awarded to a player set by
Jack Morris just four days ago.

1995
Unwilling to be part of an inferior product placed on the field and as a
show of support for his players, Tigers skipper Sparky Anderson is suspended
without pay when he refuses to manage replacement players in spring training
during the 1995 work stoppage. The popular pilot will resume his duties when
the strike is resolved, but will 'retire', some believe not voluntarily,
at the end of the season.

The Orioles announce they will not play exhibition games against teams
using replacement players.

2003
Avoiding arbitration, the Braves and 36-year-old righty Greg Maddux (16-6,
2.62) agree to the largest one-year contract in major league history. The
$14.75 million deal for the four-time Cy Young Award winner eclipses the
$12 million given to David Cone by the Yankees in 2000.

After his body temperature soars to 108 degrees, Orioles pitching prospect
Steve Belcher dies of multi-organ failure less than 24 hours after
being forced to leave a spring training workout in Fort Lauderdale. Early
speculation is the 23-year-old expectant father's death may have been caused
by ephedrine, the dietary supplement linked to heatstroke and heart attacks.

2006
White Sox skipper Ozzie Guillen issues an apology for his comments published
in Sports Illustrated criticizing Alex Rodriguez' indecision concerning
which country the Yankee All-Star would represent in the World Baseball
Classic. A-Rod, who was born in the United States, thought at first he
would play for the Dominican Republic due to his parents' heritage, then
decided he was not going to play at all before choosing to play for Team USA.

2007
In a poll conducted by his hometown newspaper, more than half of the
respondants thought Carl Pavano would not bounce back with the Yankees this
year. The reader poll, which was posted on the myrecordjournal.com site,
revealed 54.5% believe the Yankee pitcher would not overcome his slow start
with the team while 45.5% stated he would have a comeback season.

2009
The Marlins announce a contract extension for manager Fredi Gonzalez through
the end of 2011. The South Florida native, who became just the third skipper
in franchise history to compile a winning campaign guiding the club to an
84-77 record, was named The Sporting News Manager of the Year last season.

The Brewers sign Eric Gagne to a minor league contract, and Corey Hart
avoiding arbitration.

2011
Jose Bautista and the Blue Jays come to terms on a $64-million, five-year
contract extension. The 30-year-old thirdbaseman/outfielder, last season's
major league leader with 54 homeruns, set a record for the largest increase
in round-trippers for a single season in baseball history, hitting 41 more
homers than his total of 13 in 2009.

