Feb 23

1918
Barney Dreyfuss of the Rules Committee launches a campaign to ban the
spitter. He will succeed next year.

1921
Rabbit Maranville is traded by Brooklyn to the Pirates for Billy Southworth,
Fred Nicholson, Walter Barbare and $15,000 in cash. The future Hall of
Fame shortstop will spend four of his 19 major league seasons playing for
the Bucs providing excellent defense for the team while compiling a .283
batting average.

1923
Brooklyn trades Hy Myers and Ray Schmandt to the Cardinals for 1B Jack
Fournier.

1934
Replacing skipper Max Carey, Brooklyn coach Casey Stengel signs a two-year
deal to manage the Dodgers.

1940
The A's waive Lynn Nelson to Detroit. Nelson was the A's top winner last
year with 10 victories, but he'll go 1-1 with Detroit before bowing out.

1942
Mrs. Charles Comiskey is abducted at gunpoint by two men while she is sitting
in the waiting room of Ted Lyons' bowling alley. They take a $3500 diamond
ring and $12 after driving her around for 45 minutes. They release her and
give her $1 for cab fare. They did not molest her or take her mink coat.

1954
The Cards purchase Vic Raschi from the Yankees for $85,000.

1960
Twenty-eight months after the Dodgers play their last game in Brooklyn,
the demolition of Ebbets Field finally begins. The National Anthem is
sung by pop singer Lucy Monroe, and a wheel-chair bound Roy Campanella,
the team's former catcher, is given an urn of dirt from behind home plate.

1964
Charlie Finley gives in to AL pressure and signs a 4-year lease with
the municipal government to keep the A's in Kansas City. Finley wanted 2
years. His exasperated AL colleagues voted 9-1 that KC's offer was reasonable.

The San Francisco Giants sign P Masanori Murakami, 3B Tatsuhico Tanaka and C
Hiroshi Takahashi - the first Japanese ever to play for American teams. All
3 are assigned to the Magic Valley Cowboys (Pioneer League).

1974
The Angels send veteran Vada Pinson to Kansas City for minor leaguer Barry
Raziano and cash. Pinson will call it quits at the end of the 1975 season,
having rung up 2757 hits, the most ever for a player not in the Hall of Fame.

1976
ML owners announce that spring training will not open until a new labor
contract is agreed upon.

1979
The Phillies trade 5 players to the Cubs for 2B Manny Trillo, OF Greg Gross
and C Dave Rader. Chicago gets Barry Foote, Jerry Martin, Ted Sizemore and
2 minor leaguers.

1986
Although he loses his arbitration case, Red Sox third baseman Wade Boggs
receives the largest amount ($1.35 million) ever awarded by this process.

1987
Just 3 days after training camp opens, an extremely frail Dick Howser
abandons his attempt to come back from a brain tumor and gives up his
position as Royals manager. Billy Gardner is named his successor.

1988
A committee of Chicago aldermen vote 7-2 to allow the Cubs to install lights
and play up to 18 night games a year at Wrigley Field. The Cubs had feared
losing the 1990 All-Star Game, as well as future playoff and World Series
games, if lights were not installed.

1990
Despite the owners dropping their arbitration and minimum salary proposals,
spring training camps remain close.

1995
Former NL MVP Kevin Mitchell signs with the Daiei Hawks of the Japanese
League.

1996
The Rules Committee announces that the strike zone will be larger, dropping
it from the top of the knees to the hollow below the knees. The change
comes out of a series of recommendations to help speed up play.

1997
Ira Berkow's front page story about Larry Doby appears in the Sunday New
York Times. The article spurs much interest about the first black to play
in the American League and many believe leads to the outfielder's election
to the Hall of Fame the following year.

1998
A series of killer tornadoes sweeps through Florida narrowly missing the
Houston Astros clubhouse and the homes of several players in Kissimmee. A
campground behind Osceola County Stadium, the Astros training base, is
destroyed, and 7 people are killed by one of the twisters.

2000
Cubs' manager Don Baylor names four captains including first baseman Mark
Grace, right fielder Sammy Sosa, pitcher Kevin Tapani and reliever Rick
Aguilera. The quartet will be the Cubs first captains since the 1960s and
early 1970s when Ron Santo held the position.

The San Diego Padres obtain OF Al Martin from the Pittsburgh Pirates for OF
John Vander Wal, and pitchers Jim Sak and Geraldo Padua. San Diego also shells
out for one of its own, signing pitcher Matt Clement to a 4 year agreement.

2001
In what is believed to be a first of its kind test, umpire Mike Everitt
meets with the Milwaukee Brewers to test out baseball's new strike zone.

2004
The Pirates sign free agent OF Raul Mondesi to a contract.

Former major league umpire Al Clark pleads guilty to a single count of
conspiracy to commit mail fraud for his part in selling baseballs that he
and a memorabilia dealer falsely claimed were used in historic games. The
games included the ones when Cal Ripken Jr tied and broke Lou Gehrig's
record for the longest playing streak. In May he will be sentenced to four
months in prison.

2006
Complaining about the lack of support from local baseball officials, Roberto
Kelly resigns as manager of Panama's team in the World Baseball Classic. The
Giants spring training instructor believes some players were held back from
participating in the WBC so they would play in the Panamanian championships.

2012
Avoiding a 50-game suspension, Ryan Braun becomes the first major league
player to successfully challenge the results of a positive test. The panel
that heard the appeal voted 2-1 in favor of the 28-year-old Brewer outfielder
because the test collector kept the urine sample at home and stored it in
his refrigerator for two days before sending the specimen to a Montreal
laboratory for analysis.

2013
Jason Bay, who mutually agreed to terminate his contract with the Mets
in November after three years of futility with the team, clouts a two-run
homer in his first at-bat of spring training in the Mariners' 8-6 exhibition
victory over the Padres. The likable, but oft-injured outfielder signed
with Seattle in the offseason for $1 million, a far cry from the four-year
$66-million free-agent deal he inked with New York in 2009.

