Feb 25

1905
While most clubs go south or stay close to home, the Cubs go to Santa Monica,
California for spring training.

1917
The White Sox purchase Chick Gandil from Cleveland for $3,500.

1925
John McGraw arrives in Florida and is installed as president of a real
estate development near Bradenton called Pennant Park. With streets named
for early Giants heroes, and lots offered for $2,500 to $5,000, McGraw
hires a fleet of salesmen and heads north. NY newspapers run a series of
full-page ads featuring a picture of John McGraw with the bold caption
"You've followed me in baseball, now follow me in real estate." A year
later, the boom will go bust, washed away by two hurricanes. McGraw will
incur a loss of $100,000 after paying off close friends, players and other
investors, and will be hounded by creditors.

1933
Four days after turning thirty years old and acquiring a very generous
inheritance from his step-father, Tom Yawkey purchases the Red Sox from
the broke Robert Quinn for $1.2 million. The acquisition of the Boston
American League franchise, which lasts for 44 years, the longest by a
sole owner in baseball history, is prompted by former school classmate and
Hall of Fame infielder Eddie Collins, who will serve as the team's general
manager until 1947. Young Tom's father, William Austin, was negotiating to
buy the Tigers when he died and William Yawkey completed the deal. William
Yawkey then adopted young Tom, who took on the Yawkey name and now uses
his inheritance to buy the Red Sox. Yawkey intends to rebuild Fenway to
boost attendance, which skidded to 182,150 last season. He also hires Eddie
Collins as vice-president and GM.

1934
At the age of 60, John McGraw, in ill health since his retirement as Giants
manager early in the 1932 season, dies of uremia at New Rochelle Hospital
two weeks after entering the facility with optimistic reports about his
recovery. The renown Giants skipper, known as 'Little Napolean' due to his
style and stature, won ten pennants and three world championships during
his 30 years as the team's manager. His last public appearance had been
the 1933 All-Star Game as the NL manager.

1941
Days after the start of spring training, the Yankees sell Babe Dahlgren,
the man who took over 1B from Lou Gehrig in 1939, to the Braves. The deal
is questioned since no replacement seems apparent. McCarthy claims they
would have won another pennant had not Babe Dahlgren made a costly error
at first late in the season.

1946
Ted Williams, back from the service, hits the first spring training pitch
he sees for a homerun.

The Chicago White Sox hand out the first media guide to beat writers. Just
17 pages long, it is the creation of Marsh Samuel, according to historian
Peggy Beck. The project intrigues Bill Veeck, owner of the Cleveland Indians,
who hires Samuel away from the Sox to create a guide for the Tribe.

1957
The U.S. Supreme Court decides 6-3 that baseball is the only professional
sport exempt from antitrust laws. The issue arises when pro football seeks
similar protection from the laws.

1965
The big league owners refuse to raise the minimum salary requested by ball
players. The players had asked the current $6,000 amount be raised to $7,000.

1969
Baseball avoids the first work stoppage in the game's history. The strike is
averted when the owners agree to a pension plan for baseball with players to
get $5.45 million per year. They also get a reduction in the years necessary
to qualify for a pension from 5 to 4, retroactive to 1959; a percentage of
television revenues; lowered minimum age for drawing a pension from 50 to
45; and other benefits.

1972
Due to a salary impasse, the Cardinals trade 20-game winner Steve Carlton
(20-9) to the last place Phillies for pitcher Rick Wise. 'Lefty' will
post a 27-10 record for Philadelphia and will win the National League Cy
Young Award. Carlton will go on to win 241 games and 4 Cy Young awards for
the Phils.

1973
The spring training lockout ends when the players' union and the owners
reach a three-year agreement. The new collective bargaining agreement
establishes salary arbitration for players with two or more years of major
league service, raises the minimum salary to $15,000 and includes the new
"10 and 5" trade rule that allows a player with ten years in the major
leagues, in which the last five are with his current team, to block any
trade involving him. Spring training is slated to start March 1st.

1975
The Orioles trade 1B Boog Powell and P Don Hood to the Indians for C Dave
Duncan and a minor league OF.

1978
Abandoning the earlier Vida Blue deal, the Reds trade Dave Revering and
cash to the A's for P Doug Bair. Blue will go across the Bay next month.

1981
The Executive Board of the Players' Association votes unanimously to strike
on May 29th if the issue of free-agent compensation remains unresolved. That
deadline will be extended briefly, however, when the Players' Association's
unfair labor practices complaint is heard by the National Labor Relations
Board.

1987
Commissioner Ueberroth bans former Cy Young Award winner LaMarr Hoyt from
major league baseball for the 1987 season due to 3 drug-related incidents
during the past year. On June 16th the penalty will be reduced to sixty days,
and the Padres will be ordered to reinstate the right-hander by an arbitrator.

1993
Resembling a marlin with arms and legs 'Billy' is introduced as the mascot of
the new National League franchise in Miami. Owner Wayne Huizenga selects the
name partly because a dolphin is from the species of fish known as "billfish,
and it was different from typical baseball mascot names like Smasher."

1994
After a long campaign by Yankee fans, including owner George Seinbrenner,
the Veterans Committee elects Phil Rizzuto to the Hall of Fame, along with
the posthumous selection of Leo Durocher. The former infielder and current
television broadcaster's enshrinement, that cause much debate given the
borderline career stats, became especially important to his supporters when
Pee Wee Reese, a similar-styled shortstop of the rival crosstown Brooklyn
Dodgers was inducted 1984.

1998
Free agent P Jack McDowell signs a 1-year contract with the Anaheim Angels.

1999
The Diamondbacks acquire 2B Tony Womack from the Pirates in exchange for
OF Paul Weichard and a player to be named.

2000
Hall of Fame OF Frank Robinson is hired by major league baseball to handle
on-field disciplinary matters. Previously, such matters were handled by
the individual league offices.

2002
Diamondbacks' third baseman Matt Williams breaks a bone in his left leg
during the morning workout. Arizona will not issue a timetable for the
return of the 36-year-old veteran.

The 84-year-old Hall of Fame broadcaster, Ernie Harwell announces this
season will be his last as the Tigers' radio play-by-play announcer. During
his 62-year career behind the mike, the winner of the 1981 Ford Frick Award
for baseball broadcasting excellence had worked for the Brooklyn Dodgers,
New York Giants and Baltimore Orioles before moving to Detroit.

2003
Blue Jays' World Series hero Joe Carter is selected for a June induction
into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. Pete Rose, who played 95 games
for the Expos and collected his 4000th hit with Montreal, was one of the
46 nominees considered, but was not chosen by 75 per cent of the voters.

The Pirates sign free agent OF Reggie Sanders to a contract, his 6th NL
team in 6 years.

2005
After winning an auction for its one-day naming rights, Kerry Konrad
originally planned to change the Fleet Center's name to honor Yankee captain
Derek Jeter, but agrees to rename the Boston arena as the 'Jimmy Fund
Center'. The New York fan's change of heart is prompted by a friend's offer
of an additional $6,275 for the childhood cancer charity, bringing the total
amount to $8,600, reflecting the 86 years between Red Sox World Championships.

2008
Terry Francona signs a three-year contract extension that runs through 2011,
and includes team options for 2012 and 2013, to continue as manager of the
Red Sox. After an eighty-six year drought, the BoSox skipper has led the
club to a pair of World Series titles in four seasons at the helm.

2010
The Rangers void Khalil Greene's contract announcing the reason for the
action is a private matter, and is being done in the best interest of the
ballplayer. The 30-year-old utility infielder, who missed 49 games with
the Cardinals last season because of social anxiety, was unable to report
to spring training last week as a result of his unidentified problem.

2012
On their Twitter account, the Mets send out an image of the patch the team
will wear this season in memory of Gary Carter, who died earlier in the
month of brain cancer at the age age 57. The black oval will feature the
nickname of the former New York catcher, Kid, and his number 8.

