Feb 28

1903
A syndicate headed by Pittsburgh owner Barney Dreyfuss and James Potter buys
the Philadelphia Phillies from John Rogers and A. J. Reach for $170,000. It
will be another 7 years before ownership interest in more than one team
is prohibited.

A columnist in The Sporting News suggests that a number be pinned to each
player so that spectators will know immediately who is playing and "will not
be obliged to yell out to reporters." Sometimes players are substituted for
and "this change is not known for several innings." The writer also thinks it
"is a good plan to prohibit building up the pitcher's box. The pitcher should
deliver the ball from a level with the position taken by the batsman, but if
the box is built up he has a big advantage, for he is pitching down. This
was only a little fault at first but it has grown tremendously, so that on
some grounds the box is several inches higher than the rest of the diamond."

1926
Arriving for spring training, a chastened John McGraw announces that he is
through with the real estate business. McGraw's involvement with Pennant Park
last year cost him more than $100,000. He turns his real estate interests
over to a trust.

At Crescent City, Florida a train carrying several Cleveland players
derails. No players are injured and pitcher George Uhle sleeps through
the incident.

The Dodgers sign Zack Wheat to a one year contract worth $16,000 which is
$167 more than Dazzy Vance's salary. Wheat wanted a two-year contract.

The Pittsburgh Pirates announce an increase in seating prices:  with tax
included box seats will be $1.75; Reserved $1.50; Grandstand $1.10. Bleachers
will remain at $.50.

1929
The White Sox send vet outfielder Bibb Falk to the Indians in exchange for
catcher Martin Autry. Falk will hit over .300 in each of his three years
with Cleveland.

1931
Ban Johnson dies after a long illness. He had created the AL and been its
dynamic, dictatorial leader until subdued by the advent of Judge Landis,
who took office as the first commissioner in January 1921.

1941
The Dodgers and Giants open the spring training schedule with a 4-3 Brooklyn
win in Havana. Paul Dean takes the loss.

1946
Alex Carrasquel, White Sox pitcher, signs a 3-year contract with the Mexican
League, the first shot in the event that will dominate baseball even more
than the return of the war veterans.

1950
Lending a hand. Bob Bundy of Hollywood (PCL) is knocked unconscious at
home in the 9th inning when he tries to score on a sac fly. When Portland
catcher Jim Gladd searches for the ball to make the tag, Hollywood's on-deck
batter Murray Franklin takes Bundy's hand and puts it on home plate to tie
the score. The Beavers win it in the 10th, 4-3.

1955
The NL fines the Braves $500 for opening their spring training camp before
the official March 1 date.

1966
Seeking an unprecedented 3-year, $1.05 million contract to be divided evenly,
the Dodgers' Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale begin a joint holdout.

1969
After the Montreal Expos trade him in a package to the Houston Astros
for Rusty Staub, 1B Donn Clendenon announces his retirement. He eventually
rescinds his retirement and baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn persuades Houston
to accept Jesus Alou in place of Clendenon, who remains with Montreal. The
trade is pure gold for the Expos and a bust for the Astros. Staub becomes
Le Grande Orange, one of the most popular players in Expos history. In
1969, he will lead the Expos in batting average (.302), slugging (.526)
and on-base percentage (.426). Alou, a singles hitter who posted an OBP 28
points below league average throughout his major league career, has a dismal
season with Houston, hitting .248 with an OBP (.276) one usually associates
with utility infielders of that era. Clendenon will also outproduce Alou
while playing a vital role in baseball history. After joining the New York
Mets in a mid-season trade, he helps lead the surge that eventually brings
the franchise its first World Series championship.

1970
Pete Rose becomes baseball's first singles hitter to sign a 6-figure
contract, coming to terms with Reds general manager Bob Howsam for an
estimated $105,000 per year.

1972
Former pitching star Dizzy Trout dies in Chicago at the age of 56. Among
his survivors is a 14-year-old son, Steve, who will begin his major-league
career in 1978.

1975
The Mets purchase slugger Dave Kingman from the Giants. The 26-year-old
first baseman/outfielder was drafted by the San Francisco as the team's
first pick in the first round of the secondary phase of the 1970 amateur draft

1978
The Padres trade IF Mike Ivie to the Giants for IF-OF Derrell Thomas.

1981
The Mets trade OF Steve Henderson and an estimated $100,000 to the Cubs
for slugger Dave Kingman who led the NL with 48 HRs in 1979.

1985
Rick Reuschel signs as a free-agent with the Pirates and spends the first
two months in the minors. After being called up in May, 'Big Daddy' wins
14 games and the Comeback Player of the Year Award.

1986
In baseball's sternest disciplinary move since the Black Sox were banished
for life, Commissioner Ueberroth gives 7 players who were admitted drug
users a choice of a year's suspension without pay or heavy fines and
career-long drug testing, along with 100 hours of drug-related community
service. Joaquin Andujar, Jeffrey Leonard, Enos Cabell, Keith Hernandez,
Dave Parker, Dale Berra and Lonnie Smith will be fined 10 percent of their
annual salaries, while 14 other players will receive lesser penalties for
their involvement with illegal drugs. Most of the suspensions are a result
of testimony at the Pittsburgh trial.

1989
Red Schoendienst, a former 2B and manager of the Cardinals, and Al Barlick,
a ML umpire for over 29 seasons, are elected to the Hall of Fame by the
Special Veterans Committee.

1990
The Special Hall of Fame Veterans Committee, for the second time in three
years, does not select a player for induction.

1999
Arizona minor league - and former major league - pitcher Ken Robinson is
killed in a car crash. Teammate John Rosengren is arrested and charged with
second-degree murder in the alcohol-related accident.

2000
Yankee OF/DH Darryl Strawberry is suspended for one year after testing
positive for cocaine last month. Baseball commissioner Bud Selig does not
make any provision for an early return from the suspension based on good
behavior. It is Strawberry's 3rd cocaine-related suspension.

AL umpire John Hirschbeck is elected as the 1st president of the World
Umpires Association which was certified last week by the NLRB.

2002
Major league baseball announces it has rehired 5 umpires - Gary Darling,
Bill Hohn, Larry Poncino, Larry Vanover and Joe West - who had resigned
during the 1999 season. Four other umpires - Drew Coble, Greg Kosc, Terry
Tata and Frank Pulli - are allowed to retire.

2005
Jake Peavy (15-6, 2.27) and the Padres agree to the terms of a four-year
deal with the team holding an option for a fifth year. The 23-year-old
right-hander, who led the majors in ERA, opted to sign now rather than take
a chance in his first year of salary arbitration eligibility after the season.

