Mar 1

1903
Baseball rules committee chairman Tom Loftus of Washington proclaims that
the pitcher's box must not be more than 15 inches higher than the baselines
or home plate.

1909
The Pirates begin construction of a new stadium near Schenley Park near
the Oakland section of Pittsburgh. The state-of-the-art stadium was named
Forbes Field in honor of a pre-Revolutionary British general.

1910
The National Commission prohibits giving mementos to players on winning World
Series teams. This will later be reversed making way for the traditional
winners' watches, rings, and stickpins.

1919
Connie Mack makes one of his biggest player mistakes trading 3B Larry
Gardner, OF Charlie Jamieson and P Elmer Myers to Cleveland for OF Bobby
"Braggo" Roth. Vet writer Ernest Lanigan predicts that Roth will lead
the circuit in homers at Shibe, but Roth will be shipped on to Boston by
midseason. Gardner will put in 6 more .300 years, and Jamieson will be a
top leadoff man and .303 hitter for the next 14 years.

1936
After spring training with Lefty O'Doul's San Francisco Seals (PCL), the
Yomiuri Giants of Japan beat the Seals, 5-0. On March 5th they will win
again 11-7.

1942
Can players in the military play for the clubs if on furlough or based near
a game site? Owners decide against it.

1944
The Browns send veteran C Rick Ferrell to Washington for Gene Moore and cash.

1947
New managers in training camps are Billy Herman with Pittsburgh, Muddy
Ruel with the Browns, Bucky Harris with the Yankees, and Johnny Neun at
Cincinnati. Neun had ended 1946 as manager of the Yankees after both Joe
McCarthy and Bill Dickey had quit.

In anticipation of the signing of the first black players, Bill Veeck,
a resident of Phoenix, had set up a spring training camp there for the
Cleveland Indians. Arizona was chosen because of its relatively tolerant
racial climate. During the season, Veeck will sign the first AL black player,
Larry Doby, who will train at the Arizona camp. The Giants also set up camp
in Arizona while the Dodgers moved their training camp from Florida to Havana.

1949
In an effort to get a rental increase from their Sportsman's Park tenants,
the Browns move to evict the Cardinals. The Redbirds accuse the owners of
breaking the lease, and as the season approaches it is uncertain where the
National League team will play its home games.

1954
On the first day of spring training Red Sox outfielder Ted Williams breaks
his collarbone diving for a line drive. The Boston superstar will miss the
first four weeks of the season.

1965
As Pittsburgh's training camp opens, Roberto Clemente is absent and suffering
from malaria. He will report to camp a month late and struggle until mid-May.

1967
Commissioner General William Eckert approves the BBWAA's plan to select
a Cy Young Award recipient from both the National League and American
League. The honor, which was initiated in 1956, had been given to just one
pitcher in the major leagues each season, a position strongly supported by
former commissioner Ford Frick.

1969
Citing "I can't hit when I need to", Mickey Mantle announces his retirement
thus ending his fabled Hall of Fame career. The oft-injured Yankee slugger
ranks third, behind Babe Ruth and Willie Mays, on the All-time homerun list
with 536 round-trippers, and finishes his 18-year stay in the majors with
a .298 batting average.

1971
Willie Mays signs a 2-year contract with the Giants for $165,000 per year.

1976
White Sox owner Bill Veeck opens training camp in Sarasota, Florida, but
participation is limited to nonroster players.

1987
Charlie Kerfeld and the Astros finally agree on a one-year deal worth
$110,037.37 and 37 boxes of orange Jello. The Houston reliever, who wears
number 37, insisted he earn more than teammate right-hander Jim DeShaies'
$110,000 contract and wanted the gelatin for a future prank.

1988
For the first time since 1956 the Special Veterans Committee does not elect
anyone to the Hall of Fame. Phil Rizzuto, Leo Durocher, Joe Gordon and Gil
Hodges are among the candidates passed over.

1993
George Steinbrenner resumes his role as general partner of the Yankees
following his suspension from baseball in 1990 for conduct unbecoming
an owner because of his dealings with Howard Spira, reportedly a former
employee of Yankees outfielder Dave Winfield. Winfield's contract with New
York required Steinbrenner to make a sizable annual contribution to the
outfielder's charitable foundation. Steinbrenner suspected the foundation
was being badly run and had paid Spira for information that might have
relieved the Yankees' owner of his obligation. Steinbrenner and Winfield
eventually settle the dispute.

1994
Former banker Leonard Coleman is elected National League president replacing
Bill White. He had been executive director for Major League Baseball market
development.

1995
Angels replacement players play Arizona State University in an exhibition
game in Tempe, Arizona. It is the 1st time since 1912 that replacement
players have appeared in a game in major league uniforms.

1996
The Yankees christen Legends Field, their new $30 million 31-acre complex
near the Tampa Airport. The field has the exact dimensions of the stadium
in the Bronx. On hand to see Phil Rizzuto toss out the first ball are
former Yanks Whitey Ford, Catfish Hunter, Ron Guidry and Chris Chambliss,
who then watch the new Yankees beat the AL Champion Indians, 5-2.

2000
Independent arbitrator Shyam Das cuts Braves P John Rocker's suspension
from 28 days to 14 days. Rocker, who is allowed to report to spring training
with the team, also has his fine cut.

2002
The Red Sox fire GM Dan Duquette and hire Mike Port on an interim basis.

Giants 2B Jeff Kent breaks his thumb while washing his truck and is
expected to be out for the next 4-6 weeks. Rumors immediately start that the
accident occurred while Kent was riding his motorcycle, something usually
forbidden in a player's contract under the danger clause. Two 911 calls
about a motorcycle accident near Scottsdale Stadium resulted in no police
report or accident found. Statesmanlike, Kent remarks, "I think what is
sad is that this incident has become bigger than the game. There are so
many good things that happen on this field with this team that are good
for baseball. I'm not going to comment anymore on the issue."

2005
Deciding not to file as a free agent at the end of the season, Tim Hudson
(12-6, 3.53) agrees to a four-year $47-million contract extension with his
new team, the Braves. The 29-year-old right-hander, who was acquired in a
trade with Oakland in the off-season, grew up near Atlanta and rooted for
the local team as a youngster.

Construction for an additional 1,790 bleacher seats at Wrigley Field will
begin at the end of the season and will be completed in time for Opening
Day 2006. A deal is reached for the expansion when the Cubs agree to pay the
city $3.1 million prior to the start of work and by contributing funds for
a local school park and a $400,000 traffic signal system near the ballpark.

2009
Insisting there was no wrongdoing on his part, Jim Bowden resigns as the
general manager of the Nationals. The Washington GM is part of a federal
probe investigating scouts and executives for accepting kickbacks from
baseball bonuses intended for players signed in Latin America.

2012
After spending 15 seasons with Boston, Jason Varitek, ninth on the all-time
list with 1,546 games played in a Red Sox uniform, announces his retirement,
leaving only Carl Yastrzemski (23), Ted Williams (19), and Jim Rice (16)
with longer tenures with the team without playing for another franchise. The
venerable catcher, who served as the BoSox captain for the past seven seasons,
is the only major leaguer to have played in the Little League World Series,
the College World Series, the World Series, the Olympics and the World
Baseball Classic.

Yadier Molina signs a five-year extension with the Cardinals worth $75
million, an agreement that will keep the gold glove catcher with the world
champions through 2017. This new contract, which takes effect next season,
includes a mutual $15 million option that could add on another year to
the deal.

