Mar 2

1901
Jimmy Collins, Connie Mack's choice for the all-time best third baseman,
leaves the Boston NL club to manage the AL's new Boston Somersets. The
Beaneaters also lose OF Hugh Duffy who will manage Milwaukee (AL), and C
Billy Sullivan who signs with the Chicago White Stockings. More than half
the AL rosters - a total of 185 - will be filled by NL players.

1927
Babe Ruth becomes the highest paid player in major league history when
the Yankees announce the Bambino will earn $70,000 per season for the next
three years.

1941
In Havana, the Dodgers complete a 3-game sweep of their rival Giants. During
the regular 1940 season the Giants held a 16-6 advantage over Brooklyn.

1949
Joe DiMaggio leaves the Yankee camp to have an ailing right heel examined at
Johns Hopkins hospital. He is told that no surgery is needed and he returns
to Florida, but the heel will continue to bother him. The star is hitting
just 7 for 31 in the Grapefruit League.

1973
Eddie Bane of Arizona State University pitches a 9-0 perfect game against
Cal State Northridge University. Bane will rack up a record of 41-4 in
college and, after being drafted by the Twins, jumps right to the majors.

1976
The Cards trade 2B Ted Sizemore to the Dodgers for OF Willie Crawford.

1989
At a photo session, Mets outfielder Darryl Strawberry throws a punch at
Keith Hernandez, the team's first baseman. The scuffle started over comments
about salaries and results with Straw walking out of camp.

1992
Cubs 2B Ryne Sandberg becomes the highest paid player in baseball history
when he agrees to a 4-year contract extension worth $28.4 million.

1995
The 1st-ever trade of replacement players is made between the Reds and
Indians. The Reds obtain former major league Barbaro Garbey and 4 others
in return for "future considerations."

At a meeting in Chicago, owners accept the players' offer to return to work.

1996
At St. Petersburg's Al Lang Field, two Japanese umpires work a game with
two American umps. Osamu Ito is behind the plate as the Pirates whip the
Cardinals, 11-2. "I thought they did a good job," commented Bucs' manager Jim
Leyland. "And even if they didn't, you couldn't argue with them." In Dunedin,
fellow Central League umps Samio Murakoshi and Toshio Azuma are part of a
four-man crew that works the Phillies 12-2 win over the Blue Jays. Meanwhile,
four umpires from the majors are on a 9-day tour of the Japanese Leagues.

1999
Orlando Cepeda, Frank Selee, Smoky Joe Williams and Nestor Chylak are
elected to the Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee.

2001
Rusty Greer, now the Rangers' new leadoff hitter due to the A-Rod deal,
signs a $21.8 million, three-year contract extension with Texas. The .307
career hitting outfielder could make as much as $36 million with incentives
and options.

2002
The Red Sox replace Joe Kerrigan with Grady Little who will manage the team
for two years compiling a 188-136 (.580) record and making one appearance
in the postseason as the AL wild card. The once-popular skipper's contract
will not be renewed for 2004 after he becomes the target of fan's angst as
the result of not pulling out starter Pedro Martinez with a three-run lead
in the eighth inning of game 7 of the ALDS, a contest Boston will eventually
lose in the eleventh on Aaron Boone's walk-off homerun.

2004
The Yankees sign free agent 1B Travis Lee to a contract.

2005
Wearing their regular-season home uniforms instead of the traditional
batting-practice spring training jerseys, the Nationals in their first game
ever beat the Mets in the exhibition opener at Space Coast Stadium in Viera,
Florida, 5-3. The first and last game the Expos played, before moving from
Montreal to Washington to become the Nats, were also against Mets.

In a Capitol Rotunda ceremony, with legislators from both the House and
Senate and baseball commissioner Bud Selig in attendance, President George
W. Bush awards the nation's highest honor, the Congressional Gold Medal,
posthumously to Jackie Robinson's widow. Rachel, the widow of the courageous
ball player, accepts the award for her late husband who died in 1972. Robinson
is the second baseball player ever to get the award. The first was Roberto
Clemente in 1973.

With hundreds of Red Sox Nation citizens in attendance on the south lawn,
President George W. Bush praises team spirit and winning style of the 2004
World Champions during a White House ceremony. Fall Classic hero and Bush
supporter Curt Schilling gives the former owner of the Texas Rangers a white
baseball jersey emblazoned with the forty-third Chief Executive's name and
the number 43.

The Veterans Committee fails to elect anyone to the Hall of Fame. Gil Hodges
and Ron Santo come closest, each receiving 65 percent of the vote. A mark
of 75 percent is needed for election.

2007
Mike Young signs an $80 million five-year contract extension offered by
the Rangers. The deal, which keeps the three-time All-Star shortstop with
Texas through the 2013 season, is the second-largest in franchise history,
eclipsed only by the $252 million 10-year Alex Rodriguez free-agent signing
in December 2000.

In Atlanta, five Bluffton University baseball players and the driver and his
wife are killed in a chartered bus accident at Interstate 75 and Northside
Drive. The players, Zach Arend, David Betts, Scott Harmon, Cody Holp and
Tyler Williams, were enroute to Sarasota, Florida to play a twin bill with
Eastern Mennonite University before heading to participate in the Gene
Cusic Classic in Fort Myers.

2012
In the first change to the MLB playoff structure since the 1995 season,
when wild-card teams were first introduced, a new one-game wild-card round
will be added in each league between the teams with the best records who are
not division winners. The new post-season system, which would have allowed
the Red Sox and the Braves to avoid their historic collapses last season,
increases the reward of winning a division title, but opens the door to
the possibility of a third-place team winning the World Series.

