Mar 5

1901
The American League approves a 14-player limit to go into effect 14 days
after the start of the season. As noted by Cliff Blau, the limit is changed
at the last minute, the deadline postponed for two weeks, and the limit
increased to 15 by Ban Johnson after 6 teams request the change.

1916
The NL meeting of February 1916 announced that it had come to the league's
attention that "some of the diamonds" didn't measure properly. On this day,
John Heydler's office circulates to clubs the news of the Chicago Cubs
pitching distance, and orders an engineer's certification.

1922
Babe Ruth signs a three-year contract with the Yankees for $52,000 per
season, an unheard sum of a thousand dollars a week. In November, Yankees
owner Colonel Jacob Ruppert has the Bambino agree to a contract addendum
which limits the slugger's outrageous off-field behavior, including the
excessive consumption of alcohol and late-night carousing.

1926
When rookie SS Moe Berg is missing from the White Sox camp, the team explains
that he is taking a law course at Columbia and will not be available until
May 15. This was previously known by the Sox and the reason they signed
veteran SS Ev Scott when he was released by the Senators.

1936
The St. Louis Cardinals, without the Dean brothers, who are once again
holdouts, visit Cuba and are beaten by the Cuban all-stars. Luis Tiant Sr,
whose son will win 229 ML games, is the starting pitcher for the Cubans.

1941
Dodger president Larry MacPhail issues instructions that all Dodger players
must live in Brooklyn. MacPhail is also campaigning for visiting teams to
stay in Brooklyn rather than Manhattan.

1942
Variety, the weekly entertainment newspaper, wades in against "droopy drawers"
in baseball. "Joe DiMaggio and Carl Hubbell are the silliest looking pair
we've seen. Way back in the days when the speed boys were stealing 40 to
90 bases a year, you'll remember they used to roll their pants just below
the knee. Now they've got 'em almost to their shoes. The theory here is
that the constriction inherent in the new style can slow a player a full
stride getting to first."

Phil's manager Hans Lobert wants the "lies" dropped from the team's
nickname. "We've been at the bottom of the standings so long the syllable
seems to imply we're lying dormant. Besides, it confuses us with a cheroot. I
don't like it," he explains in the TSN. "It may sound a bit far fetched,
but it's going to be the Phils from now on."

1945
Bert Shepard, a one-legged veteran of the war, tries out as a pitcher for
the Senators. The symbol of wartime baseball, outfielder Pete Gray of the
Browns, will field and bat with only one arm.

With war-time travel restrictions still in effect, the Dodgers open spring
training at Bear Mountain, NY with 15 players in camp. Seven teams - the
Browns, Tigers, Reds, Indians, Cubs, Pirates and White Sox - are training in
Indiana, the most of any state. The Red Sox are at Pleasantville High School
in NJ, while the Braves are prepping at the Choate School in Connecticut.

1952
Norman Bel Geddes, after designing a 5,000 seat complex for the Dodgers in
Vero Beach, Florida, states that Walter O'Malley has asked for a stadium
design for Brooklyn. It is to have a retractable dome, garage, automatic
hotdog vending machines, and artificial turf that can be painted in
different colors.

1958
Duke Snider, Johnny Podres and Don Zimmer suffer minor injuries in an auto
accident in Vero Beach, Florida as they try to beat a 12:30 A.M. curfew. This
is the 3rd accident in 2 months involving Dodger players; Jim Gilliam and
his family had an accident shortly after Roy Campanella was paralyzed in
a career-ending car crash.

1962
The Reds' third baseman Gene Freese will be out until August 17 due to a
severe ankle fracture suffered in the team's first intrasquad game.

1964
Atlanta's Mayor Ivan Allen Jr claims to have a verbal agreement with a major
league team which promises to move to the Peach State if a stadium is ready by
next year. The next day the Board of Alderman approves a $15-million stadium.

1966
Marvin Miller, assistant to the President of United Steelworkers, is elected
as the first full-time executive director of the Major League Players'
Association by the player representatives. It will prove to be one of the
more influential off-the-field events in Major League history.

1972
Jim Fregosi, obtain by the Mets from the Angels in the off-season for Nolan
Ryan, breaks his right thumb during a spring training workout. The all-star
infielder will suffer through an agonizing season batting only .232 in 101
games after being touted as the team's solution to its revolving door at
third base.

1973
Yankee teammates Fritz Peterson and Mike Kekich announce they have traded
families including their wives, children and even the dogs. The swap, that
began last Fall, will work well for Peterson, who will become married to
his best friend's former wife with whom he will have four children, than
it does for Kekich, whose relationship with Marilyn Peterson is short-lived.

1975
Tony Conigliaro signs a contract with Pawtucket (International League)
in an attempt to make a comeback.

1982
Needing just 3 wins to reach 300 for his career, Gaylord Perry signs a
one-year contract with the Seattle Mariners.

1986
The Braves trade C Rick Cerone and a pair of minor leaguers to the Brewers
for C Ted Simmons.

1996
The Veteran's Committee elects four new members of the Hall of Fame, and
just misses naming a fifth. The group elected includes Earl Weaver, Orioles
manger for 17 seasons, Jim Bunning, who won 100 games in each league, 19th
century manager Ned Hanlon, who won pennants in Baltimore and Brooklyn,
and Bill Foster, the Negro League's winningest pitcher. Nellie Fox receives
the necessary 75% of the Committee's votes, but the rules allow just one
modern player elected, and Bunning has more votes.

1997
Nellie Fox, Tommy Lasorda, and former Negro Leaguer Willie Wells are elected
to the Hall of Fame by the veterans committee.

2003
Although not agreeing to ban ephedra, a memo is sent to all major leaguers
by the players' union strongly recommending players "be extremely reluctant
to use any products" containing the substance. The diet supplement, which
is available without a prescription, has been linked to the spring training
death of Orioles' pitcher, Steve Belcher.

2006
Major League Baseball signs a lease for a new stadium for the Nationals to
be built along the Anacostia River.

