Mar 7

1903
In the first trade under the peace treaty, the Giants trade last
season's part-time manager Heinie Smith to Detroit for second baseman Kid
Gleason. Gleason is immediately sent to the Phillies where he will end a
20-year playing career.

1908
Near Lexington, Kentucky, the train carrying the Cleveland Naps is struck by
two bricks shattering windows. Elmer Flick, Bill Bradley and Harry Bay are
hit by the flying glass while playing euchre, but no injuries occur. Tomorrow
the team will arrive safely in Macon, Georgia for spring training.

1919
Christy Mathewson, back from the war, rejoins the Giants as pitching coach
and heir apparent to McGraw.

1923
After sitting out most of last season, 35-year-old Fred Toney signs for
one more year with the Cards.

The New England American Legion appeals to Commissioner Landis to discontinue
morning games on Memorial Day. The request is turned down.

1924
At Orlando, Reds manager Pat Moran, 48, dies at spring training of Bright's
disease. Coach Jack Hendricks replaces the popular Moran. Hendricks,
a graduate of Northwestern Law School, is a lawyer off-season.

1941
At Havana, the Dodgers roll over the Cleveland Indians 15-0. Pee Wee
Reese and Joe Medwick use a batting helmet designed by two Johns Hopkins
doctors with the help of Larry MacPhail. The two Dodgers, victims of HBPs
last year, pronounce the helmets satisfactory. Brooklyn P Van Lingle Mungo
celebrates the win a little too hard and when tomorrow's game is rained out,
he continues to party. The result is that manager Durocher sends him a note
informing Mungo he's been reassigned to the Dodgers' minor league camp in
Macon. Mungo will pitch just 2 innings for Brooklyn this year.

1942
The Cuban all-stars make it 2 out of 3 from the Dodgers, scoring 2 in the
9th to win, 4-2.

The Yankees beat the Cardinals, 3-2, with Tommy Henrich driving in all the
New York runs.

1946
Negro Leaguer Marvin Williams, playing for Vargas against Margallanes,
sets a still-standing Venezuelan League mark by driving in 8 runs on 2
homers and 2 singles. Vargas wins, 16-9.

1955
Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick believed baseball had tipped in favor of
the hitter and said if he had his way he would bring back the spitter. While
visiting the Philadelphia Phillies training camp in Clearwater, Florida
Frick said, "Something positive should be done to help the pitchers." In
advocating the return of the spitball Frick added, "There's nothing
dangerous about it. It was nothing like the screwball they have to throw
today, with a twisted elbow and tricky snapping of the wrists. No wonder
today's pitchers can't go on as long."

Mexican millionaire Jorge Pasquel dies in a private plane crash. Pasquel
and his brother started a fight with MLB in 1946 when he signed major
leaguers like Danny Gardella, Sal Maglie and Mickey Owen to play in the
Mexican League. The league dissolved in 1953 and its remnants merged into
organized baseball.

1956
The player reps accept the owners' decisions on minimum pay and the WS TV
pact. They seek workman's compensation coverage. The player reps rehire
J. M. Lewis as their representative.

1965
Tigers manager Chuck Dressen suffers a mild coronary occlusion. He will be
sidelined until May 19th. Coach Bob Swift will be acting manager.

1977
The Braves file suit against Commissioner Kuhn challenging the severity of
the penalty for tampering charges.

1979
The Special Veterans Committee selects former center fielder Hack Wilson,
who compiled a .307 batting average playing mostly for the Giants and the
Cubs during his 12-year major league career, for the Hall of Fame. The
committee also chooses former National League president Warren Giles,
who spent 18 years in the post, for induction into Cooperstown this summer.

The exhibition season opens with semipro and amateur umpires in place of
ML arbiters, who are staging a collective holdout.

1981
The Braves trade OF Jeff Burroughs to the Mariners for P Carlos Diaz.

1995
The Veterans Committee selects former players Richie Ashburn, Vic Willis,
and Leon Day, and past president of the National League, William Hulbert,
for induction to the Hall of Fame. Day, a Negro League right hander, who
played in Baltimore with the Black Sox and the Elite Giants and with the
Brooklyn and Newark Eagles, will be dead of a heart attack in less than a
week after hearing the good news.

1998
The Yankees sign P Orlando Hernandez, brother of World Series hero Livan
Hernandez, to a 4-year $6.6 million contract.

1999
In a historic agreement, it is announced that the Baltimore Orioles will
travel to Cuba for a March 28 exhibition game against the Cuban national
team in Havana. The Cuban team will travel to the US for a return contest
at a future date. It is the first time in 40 years that Americans will play
a professional game in Cuba.

2001
Bud Selig upholds the January 14 Blue Jay and White Sox trade which sent
Toronto pitchers David Wells and Matt DeWitt to the White Sox in exchange
for pitchers Mike Sirotka, Kevin Beirne and Mike Williams and outfielder
Brian Simmons. Although, upon further medical examinations, Mike Sirotka was
determined to be 'damaged goods' prior to the deal, the commissioner used a
'buyers beware' policy stating the individual club must take responsibility
for the information originally used in making the transaction.

Rockies 32-year-old reliever Jerry Dipoto retires due to a bulging disc in
his neck.

2006
In their World Baseball Classic debut Team USA blanks Mexico, 2-0. Home
runs by Derrek Lee and Chipper Jones along with Jake Peavy and a bevy of
relievers combining to throw a four-hitter proves to be the difference as
the United States defeat their neighbors from south of the border.

2008
With a two-out RBI single in the ninth inning off reliever Colter Bean,
Danny Sandoval spoils the Braves bid for a spring training combined
no-hitter. Atlanta uses seven hurlers beating the Indians at Winter Haven,
4-1.

The Cape Cod Times reports MLB has threaten to withhold their annual grant
from Cape League if the six teams in the 10-team circuit sharing nicknames
with big league teams, such as the Chatham Athletics, do not purchase all
future uniforms and souvenir merchandise from licensed vendors, a more
expensive option. The deadline has been extended until March 21 to give
league officials more time to resolve the issue.

