Mar 8

1913
In Indianapolis, John Powers, founder of last year's failed mid-western
Columbian League, organizes the Federal League. To avoid the agreement of
the National Commission, the upstart league will operate independently with
franchises in Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Indianapolis, Pittsburgh and
St. Louis. It will play 120 games at a level equivalent to the lower minor
leagues, but will enhance its status considerably in 1914 to challenge
the MLs.

1918
The Yankees buy 1B George Burns, 37, from Detroit, then swap him to the
A's for another veteran Ping Bodie, 30. Burns will replace Stuffy McInnis,
the last of the "$100,000 infield," who went to the Red Sox in January.

1923
Judge Landis allows former Giants lefthanded P Rube Benton to return to the
NL. Benton had admitted prior knowledge of the 1919 WS fix, but he remained
in baseball, winning 22 for St. Paul (American Association). NL President
Heydler disagrees with Landis, calling Benton "undesirable," but does not stop
the Reds from signing him. Benton, 35, will be 14-10 for the 2nd-place Reds.

1927
In the grapefruit league, Rogers Hornsby appears in a Giants game for the
first time and contributes 3 hits as New York pounds the Browns, 13-1.

1930
Babe Ruth signs a 2-year contract for $160,000 with New York. At $80,000 per
year, he is the highest paid player of all time. When it is pointed out he is
earning more money than the President of the United States, Ruth observes:
"I had a better year than he did." Ed Barrow, Yankee GM, assures posterity,
"No one will ever be paid more than Ruth."

1941
Phillies P Hugh Mulcahy becomes the first big leaguer drafted into the Armed
Forces for W.W.II. Mulcahy, an All Star in 1940 while leading the NL in losses
for the 2nd time, will pitch less than 100 innings when he returns after
the war. More than 100 major leaguers will be drafted within the next two
years, and two - Elmer Gedeon and Harry O'Neill - will be killed in action.

1942
In Florida, Montreal club officials announce one of the odder trades in
history. The Royals are sending Big Bill O'Brien, their trainer for 15
years, to the Dodgers in exchange for their muscle manipulator, Charles
"Doc" Wilson. O'Brien has also been the trainer for the Montreal Maroons
hockey team.

In a charity game at Gilmore Field in Hollywood, California three Chicago
players lead a team of major Leaguers to a 3-2 win over a team of coast
players. Taft Wright's 2-run homer is the big blow. The go-ahead run
comes in the 3rd when Lou Stringer's single is followed by Lou Novikoff's
double. Seven thousand fans are on hand.

At Havana, the Cuban All-Stars and the Dodgers split a pair before 12,418. The
Dodgers win the opener, 6-3, then lose, 3-0.

Pinch hitter Buddy Blair strikes out with the bases loaded in the 9th and
the Philadelphia Athletics drop their 3rd straight to the PCL San Diego
Padres. The final is 5-4.

1944
The Detroit Tigers invite 6 foot 11 inch Ralph Siewert to spring training
in Evansville, IN.

1945
As noted by historian Bill Deane, today's edition of The Sporting News has
a column from Boston Post writer Jack Malaney, a former president of the
Baseball Writers' Association, and future member of the Hall of Fame Veterans'
Committee. He introduces what will come to be known as the "Jack Malaney
Plan", proposing that each of the 16 major league teams play interleague
exhibition games on July 10, scheduled to minimize travel. The five cities
that have teams in each league - Boston, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia and
St. Louis - would host games between the cross-town rivals, while the others
would play in cities enroute to regularly-scheduled games. Proceeds from the
games would be split between the American Red Cross and the National War Fund.

1946
The first spring training game ever to be played in Arizona takes place at
Tucson's Hi Corbett Field. The Indians, behind the pitching of Bob Lemon,
beat the Giants, 3-1, in the inaugural Cactus League contest.

1947
In Havana's new Stadium del Cerro, the Dodgers, behind three pitchers,
beat the Yankees in 10 innings 1-0. Carl Furillo scores on Pete Reiser's
double, and Snuffy Stirnweiss' 10th-inning single is the only Yankee hit. On
hand to watch is Connie Zimmerman, an associate of mobster Lucky Luciano,
and a racing handicapper, Memphis Engelberg. As Burt Solomon writes,
Durocher points out the men to sports writers Dick Young and Milt Gross,
saying, "Look at that. If I had those guys in my box, I'd be kicked out
of baseball. Are there two sets of rules? One applying to managers and
one applying to club owners. When asked about if the men are his guests,
Dodger GM Larry MacPhail snaps, "What are you. The goddam FBI?" MacPhail
calls Durocher a liar, and in a bizarre turn, later files charges against
the manager with the commissioner's office.

1949
Max Lanier and Fred Martin, late of the Mexican League, file a $2.5 million
suit against baseball. A federal judge on April 1 will deny their right to
be reinstated.

1952
The Cubs play their first game in Mesa, Arizona beating the Indians, 5-4,
before 4,000 fans at Rendezvous Park. The Cubs spent the past 30 spring
training seasons (1921-51) on Catalina Island before relocating. Mesa
community leader Dwight "Pat" Patterson is the moving force in convincing
the Cubs to sign a two-year contract to play in Mesa. In 1991, the field
at HoHoKam Park will be named after him.

1966
Prior to an intrasquad contest in St. Petersburg in a pregame ceremony,
the Mets announce former manager Casey Stengel had been elected to the Hall
of Fame. The 75-year-old 'Old Perfessor' benefitted from a new rule by the
Baseball Writers Committee on Veterans that makes any manager, umpire or
executive passed the age of 65 eligible to be elected to the Hall of Fame
six months after retiring, bypassing the traditional five-year wait rule
for players.

1969
NL President Giles and Commissioner Bowie Kuhn say the Rusty Staub deal
stands, that Clendenon belongs to the Expos, and that Montreal and Houston
will have to come to agreement on further compensation.

1980
Rangers owner Brad Corbett agrees to sell the club to a group of investors
headed by Fort Worth businessman Eddie Chiles.

While waiting for the team bus outside his hotel during the Cleveland Indians
3-game exhibition series against the Mexico City Reds, a crazed fan wielding
a ballpoint pen stabs rookie OF Joe Charboneau. The pen penetrates one inch
and strikes a rib, sidelining Charboneau for 4 days, but he will recover
to win the AL Rookie of the Year award.

1985
Dave Stieb, the ace of the Toronto staff for the past 5 seasons, signs
an 11-year contract that could be worth up to $25 million with deferred
payments and incentives.

1996
Bill Nicholson, 81, 5-time All-Star right fielder for the Cubs and Phillies,
dies. He twice led the NL in homeruns and RBIs.

1998
The Yankees trade IF Andy Fox to the Diamondbacks in exchange for P Marty
Janzen and Todd Erdos.

1999
Joe DiMaggio, baseball's "Greatest Living Player," dies at the age of 84
following a long illness.

The Padres reach an agreement with relief ace Trevor Hoffman on a 4 year
$32 million contract, with a club option for a 5th year that would raise
the total up to $40 million. The agreement makes Hoffman the highest paid
reliever in history.

Diamondbacks OF Tony Womack is out for 6 weeks with a fractured bone in
his right forearm. Womack, acquired from the Pirates over the winter,
suffers the break when he is hit by a pitch from White Sox Jim Parque.

2000
The Braves announce that P John Smoltz will undergo elbow surgery to repair
a torn medial collateral ligament. He is expected to miss the entire season.

2001
In a press release, the Orioles announce Albert Belle, "has been found to be
totally disabled and unable to perform as a Major League baseball player,"
due to a degenerative right hip. The Orioles will place the 34-year-old
outfielder on the 60-day disabled list thus beginning the process which
conforms to the procedure set forth by Major League Baseball in the case
of a totally disabling and permanent injury to a player.

2006
A Canadian team made up mostly of minor leaguers stuns the baseball world
by beating an highly-favored Team USA in the first round of the WBC,
8-6. Thanks to center fielder, Adam Stern, who hits an inside-the-park
homer, collects four RBIs and makes a pair of sensational catches, and
21-year-old southpaw Adam Loewen, who gives up three hits and keeps the
American all-stars scoreless for 3 2/3 innings, the Canadians post their
biggest victory in its national history of baseball.

The Diamondbacks send INF Alex Cintron to the White Sox in exchange for P
Jeff Bajenaru.

2008
In hopes of a more lucrative deal in the future, Ryan Zimmerman inks a new
one-year contract to play infield with the Nationals. After he homers and
drives in four runs during a 12-10 split-squad victory over the Astros,
the third baseman agrees to a $465,000 deal, slightly improving his present
salary.

2009
The Brewers release Eric Gagne.

2011
Kim Ng is named by MLB as the senior Vice-President of its baseball
operations, making her the highest-ranking woman in the major leagues. The
Dodger Assistant General Manager, a post she held since 2001, will report
to Joe Torre, who had managed in LA during the last three years of her tenure.

2013
Allen Craig (.307, 22, 92) and the Cardinals agree to a $31-million five-year
deal valued at $43 million over six seasons. The 28-year-old first baseman
played a key role in the 2011 St. Louis World Championship contributing
three go-ahead RBIs, including a clutch eighth-inning line drive in game
6 that sparked the start of an unforgettable Redbirds rally.

2016
A meeting today at 3:08 p.m at Clemens Field, named after Samuel Clemens which
has .308 gate and a 308 right-field foul pole, a .309 suite, and a monument
depicting a .309 batting average, will help solve a mystery surrounding a
not so well-known resident, Jake Beckley. The purpose of the gathering is
to determine which number should be used to commemorate the Hall of Fame
outfielder's batting average, .308 as listed by Baseball-Reference.com and
many other resources or the .309, engraved on his plaque at Cooperstown.

2017
"When Moses Fleetwood Walker walked onto a field in Toledo, he did more than
play a game. He was more than just an athlete. He did more than throw, catch,
or hit. That day and every day he played he started a conversation." - Craig
Brown, an adjunct professor at Kent State University. By a vote of 93-1,
the Ohio House passes Bill 59, setting aside October 7 each year in honor
of Moses Fleetwood Walker, the first-openly African American to play under
contract in the major leagues. In 1884, the bare-handed backstop caught for
the American Association’s Toledo Blue Stockings, until a rib injury and
the team's excessive payroll led to his release late in the season.

