Mar 9

1922
Rogers Hornsby signs a three-year contract with Cards owner Sam Breadon
calling for $18,500 per season. This makes the young star the highest paid
player in NL history.

1927
In a practice game in spring training Joe Judge hits a line drive that hits
Walter Johnson in the foot breaking a small bone in the ankle and sidelining
him for over two months. The 38-year-old will never completely recover from
the injury.

A depressed outfielder, Johnny Mostil, tries to commit suicide by slashing
himself with a razor. His White Sox teammate Red Faber learns that the cause
of Mostil's depression is that the outfielder has been having an affair
with Faber's wife. Mostil will play just 13 games for Chicago in 1927,
but like Faber, will play all his games in a Sox uniform.

1943
The Phillies get Babe Dahlgren from the Dodgers for vet Lloyd Waner and Al
Glossop. It is the Babe's 4th team in less than two years.

1951
The St. Louis Browns seek a $600,000 loan to help them stay in St. Louis.

1960
Hank Greenberg says efforts to settle the Veeck-Comiskey dispute have
failed and that Charles Comiskey refuses to become a minority partner of
the Veeck-Greenberg syndicate that controls the White Sox.

1961
The Yankees announce the team will be leaving its spring training home in
St. Petersburg to move to Fort Lauderdale by 1963. The Yankee owners also
encourage the new yet unnamed National League New York franchise to play
its home games at the Polo Grounds and not to consider Yankee Stadium.

1963
Songwriters Ruth Roberts and Bill Katz introduced the official Met theme
song, Meet the Mets, to the public. The tune will be modernized in 1984
adding Long Island, New Jersey, Brooklyn, Queens, Uptown and Down, to the
team's East side, West side geographical realm.

1964
The ACLU charges the White Sox with violating the rights of P-writer Jim
Brosnan.

1967
In Tampa, Reds LH pitcher Ted Davidson is shot twice by his estranged wife,
Mary. One shot hits him in the right shoulder and the other on the left
side of the abdomen. He will be on the critical list but return to limited
action in June.

1972
Players on the White Sox vote 31-0 in favor of a strike, if necessary,
during negotiations between players and owners. The dispute centers around
health and pension benefits for players. This is the first of a series of
landmark team votes. In two weeks the Sox will release vet pitcher Joel
Horlen, the Sox player rep, and he will sign with Oakland.

1979
Fearing legal consequences, Bowie Kuhn gives access to female reporters to
enter major league locker rooms. The commissioner's unpopular ruling puts
the players in an awkward position in their once all-male domain.

1981
Free agent Carlton Fisk agrees to a contract with the Chicago White Sox.

1989
Bob Horner, 31, announces his retirement because of a damaged left shoulder.

1994
Phillies first baseman/outfielder John Kruk is diagnosed with testicular
cancer. After surgery, doctors expect a full recovery.

1995
Baseball owners vote 28-0 to admit 2 new teams - the Tampa Bay Devil Rays
and the Arizona Diamondbacks - for the 1998 season. Each team will pay an
expansion fee of $130 million. The D'Backs hire lawyer Joe Garagiola Jr,
as their first GM.

1997
Angels' 2B Randy Velarde tears a ligament in his right elbow while throwing
from the outfield in pre-game drills. He will undergo surgery and be out
for the year.

2005
Current and former big league players as well as baseball executives are
issued subpoenas by the House Committee on Government Reform to appear on
March 17. The eleven 'invitees' to the congressional hearing on steroid
use include Sandy Alderson, Jose Canseco, Donald Fehr, Jason Giambi,
Rob Manfred, Mark McGwire, Rafael Palmeiro, Curt Schilling, Sammy Sosa,
Frank Thomas and Kevin Towers.

2006
At Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan a "Down with Fidel," sign, seen by
millions of television viewers - including those watching the WBC contest
in Cuba - creates an international incident. A Cuban official attending
the game confronts the male sign-holder, but Puerto Rican police quickly
intercede and take Angel Iglesias to a nearby police station where the vice
president of Cuba's National Institute of Sports is reminded that Puerto
Ricans enjoy the right to freedom of speech.

2009
Alex Rodriguez undergoes an 80-minute arthroscopic surgical procedure to
repair torn cartilage in his right hip. The Yankees third baseman, who will
need a more extensive operation in the offseason, expects to return to the
lineup in May.

2010
Amidst much hoopla, Stephen Strasburg throws two scoreless innings against
Detroit in his much anticipated first exhibition start for the Nationals
this spring. The former San Diego State right-hander, the recipient of
the Golden Spikes award as the best amateur baseball player in the nation,
was selected as the number one overall pick in last year's draft, signing
a record $15.1 million four-year deal with Washington.

2011
Luis Salazar is airlifted to Orlando Regional Medical Center after being
struck in the face by a foul line drive hit by Brian McCann while standing
in the dugout in the first inning of a Braves exhibition game in Lake Buena
Vista. The 54-year-old minor league manager sustains a concussion and will
lose his left eye as a result of the injury.

