Mar 12

1902
Cincinnati OF "Turkey Mike" Donlin is arrested for assaulting actress Minnie
Fields and her escort. Donlin will plead guilty and serve a 6-month sentence.

1903
The New York Highlander franchise (to be renamed Yankees in 1913) is approved
as a member of the American League.

1910
At the White Sox spring training camp in San Francisco, starting catcher
Billy Sullivan steps on a rusty nail. Sullivan, who managed the team in
1909, skips going to a doctor and gets blood poisoning. He will be out of
the lineup till July 1.

1934
Dizzy Dean's younger brother, Paul, ends his holdout. Diz predicts they will
win between 40 and 45 games between them. They do even better, winning 49,
with Dizzy contributing 30.

1951
Happy Chandler loses his fight to stay in office by a 9-7 vote.

1971
Chicago Cubs catcher Randy Hundley suffers a severely sprained right
knee. Hundley had attained something of an iron man reputation by catching
at least 149 games a season from 1966 to 1969 (160 in 1968). But the heavy
work load began to extract a toll in 1970 when he played less than half the
season. Hundley will appear in only nine games in 1971 before submitting
to surgery.

1975
In spring training, Red Sox catcher Carlton Fisk suffers a broken arm.

1980
National League outfielder Chuck Klein, who compiled a .320 batting average
during his 17-year career, and former Red Sox owner Tom Yawkey are elected
into the Hall of Fame. Yawkey is the first person to be selected who was
not first a player, manager or general manager.

1991
Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Palmer's attempted comeback at the age of 45 comes
to an end when the newly elected Hall of Famer tears a hamstring during
spring training.

Commissioner Fay Vincent orders a ban on the use of smokeless tobacco in
the Class A Appalachian and Northwest leagues and the rookie Pioneer and
Gulf Coast leagues.

At a gambling trial in Mississippi, Philadelphia Phillies OF Lenny Dykstra
admits to having lost $78,000 playing poker during the 1988 and 1989
off-seasons.

1992
Yankees VP and chief administrative officer Joseph Molloy, son-in-law of
principal owner George Steinbrenner, is elected as new managing general
partner of the club.

2001
Richard Hidalgo signs the third-richest contract in Astro history with a
four-year $32 million deal with the club. The outfielder's pact is less
than teammate Jeff Bagwell's $85 million (5 years), and Craig Biggio's $33
million (4 years).

2002
Baseball czar Bud Selig announced he's going to start enforcing the
60-40 rule, which says teams can't have an assets/debts ratio below that
level. According to Doug Pappas, an expert on baseball finances, "At best,
this is one more example of Bud's arbitrary and selective enforcement of MLB's
rules, retroactively punishing owners who've spent more on players than Bud
would like. At worst, it's yet another grotesque case of Selig, he of the
permanent conflict of interest, twisting the rules for his own benefit. In
1995, his Milwaukee Brewers were so far in debt they couldn't borrow money
to contribute to the construction of their new park. Forbes estimated that
as of the 1997 season, the Brewers' debt had risen to an incredible 97% of
franchise value. Selig said nothing about the 60/40 rule. But the Brewers'
new park opened in 2001. The first-year attendance spike sent club revenues to
a record $113 million. Isn't it amazing how the Commissioner suddenly decided
to enforce the rule just when his own club could finally meet the standard?"

2003
The second exhibition season bench-clearing brawl this week occurs when a
raging Mike Piazza, after being hit by a pitch, charges the mound in pursuit
of Guillermo Mota, who makes it to the dugout without being caught. The
incident may be a follow-up to a similar event last spring when a shoving
match between the two players resulted when the Mets' All-Star catcher
waited for Mota and grabbed the Dodger reliever by the jersey as he was
coming off the field in the eighth inning of the game.

2006
Over 15,000 Twins fans attend a Memorial service at the Metrodome to pay their
final respects to Kirby Puckett, who died unexpectedly, at the age of 45,
after suffering a stroke last week. During the heart-felt ceremony, former
teammates and fellow Hall of Famer Cal Ripken lightened the mood by sharing
humous anecdotes about the beloved Minnesota outfielder with the crowd.

2008
The benches clear in a rare spring training brawl when Shelley Duncan slides
into second base, with his spikes aimed at Rays infielder Akinori Iwamura
after being thrown out by a wide margin. The incident was precipitated by
Tampa Bay's aggressive play four days ago which resulted in a home-plate
collision which injured Yankee catcher Francisco Cervelli.

2010
In the opener of scheduled three-game exhibition series in Taiwan, the
Dodgers are defeated by an All-Star squad from the Chinese Professional
League (CPBL) at Taipei's Tienmu Baseball Stadium, 5-3. The road trip is
the team's second journey to the Chinese island, having finished with one
win and two losses during a trio of spring training games in 1993.

2015
Will Ferrell, hoping to raise awareness of organizations trying to cure
cancer, plays nine different positions while appearing for ten teams in five
Cactus League exhibitation games in Arizona. The comedian's effort, which
will be detailed in an upcoming HBO documentary, is severely criticized by
former NFL coach and broadcasting legend John Madden, who calls the stunt
disrespectful and insulting to the game of baseball.

