Mar 13

1912
In New Orleans, the Pelicans beat the young Cubs ("Cubets") 1-0, while the
Sox team ties in Houston, 3-3. Ed Walsh gives up 4 hits in the 9th.

The Washington Nationals lose to the University of Virginia, 5-3, in
Charlottesville. Virginia's lefty ace Eppa Rixey throws six relief innings
of shutout ball against the Nats.

1915
In an infamous exhibition at Daytona Beach, Brooklyn manager Wilbert Robinson
is set to catch a baseball dropped from an airplane flying at an altitude
of 525 feet. Aviatrix Ruth Law supposedly forgets to bring a baseball aloft
and instead drops a grapefruit which splatters all over Robbie. Outfielder
Casey Stengel is the assumed culprit of the switch.

1926
The Yankee regulars lose their third straight to the Yannigans 2-0. It is
the second game in a row that the regulars endured a shut out. Today most
of the Yannigan innings were tossed by Bob Shawkey.

1929
NL umpire and former slugger Sherry Magee dies of pneumonia at the age of
44. Magee is the only player to lead the league 4 times in runs batted in
and not be in the Hall of Fame.

1937
Lou Gehrig agrees to $38,000 plus a $750 bonus for signing. He'll play his
first game March 20 driving in 2 runs as the Yanks beat the Bees, 5-3.

1943
The major leagues approve an official ball, which will be made from
reclaimed cork and balata in the interior, materials not needed in the war
effort. Officials insist the ball will have the resiliency of the 1939 ball,
but the players will express dismay that they cannot drive the new ball
and point out the dearth of runs and homers in 1942 even with the old ball.

1944
It's True, Cy Young's middle name is not Tucumseh, as generally accepted,
but the middle initial T really stands for True.

1949
The Cordele (GA) Dispatch reports that 2B Bill Rigney of the New York Giants
had a heart attack today. It says that he is doing well and is expected
to return to action by Saturday, the 19th (as noted by Bob Harris). Rigney
will play in 122 games this year, his last as a starter.

1953
Braves' owner Lou Perini announces he will seek permission from the National
League to move his franchise from Boston to Milwaukee. The day will become
known as 'Black Friday' in Beantown.

Baltimore Mayor Tom D'Alesandro reports that negotiations with Veeck are
underway to move the Browns to Maryland.

1954
Newly acquired Bobby Thomson of the Braves breaks his ankle in three places
sliding into 2B under Woodie Held in a 3-2 exhibition loss to the Yankees at
Al Lang Field. The injury, a trimalleor fracture, will keep Thomson out of
action until July 14th, but it will open the way for Henry Aaron to start
in left field. Ironically, Aaron will suffer a fracture in September.

1960
The Chicago White Sox become the first team to feature road uniforms with
the players' names on the back. The innovation by Sox owner Bill Veeck
makes it easier for American League fans to identify the visiting Pale Hose.

1969
In addition to this year's lower mound and tightened strike zone, the majors
try an experiment ball with 10% more resiliency for a spring training
game between the Mets and the Tigers in Lakeland. It has an all-rubber
center instead of a cork and rubber core, and the seams are higher than
the regular ball. The Mets' Don Cardwell surrenders 3 homers in the 4th to
Dick McAuliffe, Norm Cash and Gates Brown in the Tigers' 7-4 win. Tomorrow,
in Phoenix, the same ball is used in the Giants 13-1 win over the Angels,
with Bobby Bonds hitting the only two homers (off George Brunet). The players
agree the ball is definitely livelier and sounded louder coming off the bat.

1979
The Tigers and Mets swap relievers with Detroit sending Ed Glynn to the
Big Apple in exchange for Mardie Cornejo, who after posting a 4-2 record
as a rookie last season will never play in another major league game. In
contrast, the latest addition to the New York bullpen will make 84 appearances
compiling an ERA of 3.53 during the two years with his new club.

1981
The Angels sign Rick Burleson to a 6-year $4.2 million contract, making
him the highest-paid SS in baseball history. Burleson was entering the last
year of a 4-year contract that paid him $125,000 per year.

1986
In a Royal pre-season game, Hal McRae (age 39) and his son Brian (age 18)
play together against the Phillies. Kansas City manager Dick Howser refers
to the event as the 'Big Mac Attack'.

1997
In their first ever minor league spring training game, the Rays defeated
Philadelphia, 6-0. John Kaufman, Tom Bergan, Matt Williams and Jamie Ybarra
combine to throw a no-hitter in the exhibition contest against the major
league team.

2001
Throwing 22 strikes out of 29 pitches over two innings of shutout ball in
his surprise start against the Mets at Roger Dean Stadium, Rick Ankiel
makes his first appearance since the 2000 playoffs in which he loss his
control throwing seven wild pitches in three postseason appearances.

2003
The Twins sign free agent P Kenny Rogers to a contract.

Former major league C Bob Uecker is picked for the Ford C. Frick Award,
and will be inducted into the announcer's wing of the Hall of Fame in July.

2006
Three pitches into the top of the seventh inning, the stadium lights
at Tradition Field partially fail. With fifty percent of the lights not
functioning, the exhibition game is ended, after a 15-minute delay, with
the Mets leading the Nationals, 10-4.

Cal Ripken Jr, Kent Hrbek and others share humorous anecdotes during
a lighthearted ceremony at the Metrodome honoring the memory of Kirby
Puckett. A crowd of 15,000 Twins fans pay their final respect to their
beloved Hall of Fame outfielder who died last week at age 45 following a
stroke suffered the day before at his home in Arizona.

2008
Joining the ranks of Garth Brooks and Tom Selleck as celebrities who have
appeared in a spring exhibition game, Billy Crystal strikes out in the
first inning as the Yankees' leadoff batter. The comedian, who signed a
one-day contract with the Bronx Bombers, wears the number sixty in honor
of his 60th birthday which is tomorrow.

The pitching-poor Cardinals bolster their rotation by agreeing to a
preliminary one-year deal with Kyle Lohse (9-12, 4.62). The 29-year-old
right-hander, who pitched with the Reds and Phillies last season, will make
$4.25 million hurling for the Redbirds.

2009
Pat Burrell takes out ads in two of Philadelphia's largest newspapers to thank
Phillies fans for their support during his nine years with the team. The
32-year-old slugging outfielder signed a free-agent deal in the off-season
with the Rays, the club the Phils beat in last season's World Series.

2011
Jackie Robinson's former apartment in Montreal is remembered with the
placement of a plaque by the U.S. government as a tribute to the Canadian
city for their exemplary treatment of the future Hall of Fame infielder. The
season before he broke the color barrier, the Dodger farmhand led the hometown
Royals to the 1946 International League championship with a .349 batting
average and earned the circuit's Most Valuable Player for his outstanding
performance with the team.

