Mar 14

1932
Babe Herman is traded to Cincinnati by the Dodgers. Catching prospect Ernie
Lombardi goes with him as a throw in making it one of Cincy's best trades
ever. The Dodgers acquire Tony Cuccinello, Joe Stripp and Clyde Sukeforth.

1953
Joseph Darst, mayor of St. Louis, vows to fight losing the hometown Browns
to Baltimore.

1954
In an exhibition game against the Red Sox, Hank Aaron gets three hits in
his first start as a Brave.

1956
Satchel Paige signs with the Birmingham Black Barons (Negro League) at age
50 to play and manage.

1961
The Mets lure former Yankee general manager George Weiss out of retirement
to become the club's first president. The iron-fisted executive had been
the Yankees' general manager from 1947 to 1960.

1991
The Angels obtain DH Dave Parker from the Brewers in exchange for OF Dante
Bichette and a player to be named later.

1993
The Reds announce that Schottzie 02, the St. Bernard owned by Reds president
Marge Schott, is being banned from the field at Riverfront Stadium for
the season.

1995
The NLRB announces it will charge major league baseball owners with two
counts of unfair labor practices.

The players' union announces that it will not settle the strike if replacement
players are used in regular season games, and if results are not voided.

2003
Able to maintain the organization's "long standing philosophy", which lets
Cablevision customers choose whether or not to receive paid programming,
the cable giant agrees to a one-year interim deal to offer YES Network
to New York Yankees fans for a fee ending a bitter and costly year-long
feud. The arrangement makes YES a premium channel instead of a basic cable
channel which the new network had previously mandated and would have made
every subscriber pay for the channel regardless of the viewer's choice.

Vladimir Guerrero is suspended for three regular-season games and Marlin
starter Brad Penny for five due to igniting an exhibition game bench-clearing
brawl earlier in the week. After being hit in the chest by the Marlins'
starter first inning pitch, the Expo All-Star outfielder, with his bat in
his left hand swung his right fist around Matt Treanor, the Florida catcher
trying to restrain him, missing Penny, who retaliated with a punch which
also missed its mark.

The Brewers' TV/radio play-by-play announcer, Bob Uecker is chosen for
induction into the broadcasters' wing of the Hall of Fame as the recipient
of the Ford C. Frick Award. The 68-year-old former back-up catcher, who
joined the Milwaukee broadcast crew in 1971, is best known for the humor he
has brought to the game through his starring role in the cult movie Major
League and the beer commercial in which the phrase "Must be in the front
row!" has become a familiar cry in ballparks around the country.

Dependent on passing a physical, free agent Kenny Lofton agrees to a one-year
pact to play with the Pirates this season. The 35-year-old leadoff man
would most likely start in center field moving Brian Giles to left field
with left fielder, Reggie Sanders, going to right.

2006
Terry Francona agrees to a two-year contract extension keeping the skipper at
the helm through 2008. The Red Sox manager replaced Grady Little in December
2003 and promptly brought Boston to its first World Championship in 86 years

Washington D.C. officials unveil the designs for a new home for the Nationals
scheduled to be opened in 2008. The glass-and-steel 41,000-seat ballpark
will feature pale stone chosen to complement the well-known skyline of the
nation's capital.

2008
Randy Wolf, the Padres' new left-handed starter, struggles in a 6-2 spring
training loss to the Brewers in Peoria, Arizona. The pitcher's brother, Jim,
isn't much help as the home plate umpire, an occurrence which isn't allowed
during a regular-season game and is the only time it has ever happened,
as the San Diego hurler gives up three runs in four innings.

