Mar 17

1905
In their first exhibition game of the year, the New York Giants beat
the Birmingham Coal Barons, 12-5. Mathewson and Wiltse share the pitching
duties and newly reacquired Sammy Strang, subbing at second, has 2 hits and
fields brilliantly. The Giants, undefeated in last year's exhibition season,
will next play in Memphis.

1911
Plumbers at work on the drain pipes at Washington's ballpark start a fire
that burns down the grandstand. Since the water has been shut off, fireman
can do nothing. Stands will be rebuilt to play the home opener on schedule.

1919
The Red Sox, minus hold outs Carl Mays and Babe Ruth, sail from New York
aboard the S.S. Arapahoe. The trip to spring training is stormy and most of
the players will be seasick. Ruth will sign on the 21st in New York and leave
that night for Florida. Mays, unsigned will join Ruth and the Sox in Tampa.

1921
The Yankees, training in Shreveport, Louisiana, journey to Lake Charles
to play a game against the Cardinals, based in Orange, Texas. The game was
proclaimed "Ruth-Hornsby Day," but the Rajah hits only a single while the
Babe lofts a HR over the short RF fence. The Yanks win 14-5.

Phils 1B Gene Paulette, ordered to appear before Commissioner Landis regarding
alleged gambling, decides to retire from Organized Ball instead. He signs
with a Massillon, Ohio semipro team.

1927
In a battle of Irish managers on St. Patrick's Day, the Cardinals beat
John McGraw's Giants, 3-0, in a Grapefruit League contest. Cards manager
Bob O'Farrell also clouts a homerun.

1936
Joe DiMaggio makes his Yankee debut in a big way. The 21-year-old future
Hall of Fame outfielder collects four hits, including a triple, in an 8-7
exhibition loss to the Cardinals.

1940
An interleague all-star game is played in Florida for the benefit of Finland,
which has been attacked by the Soviet Union. Over $20,000 is raised, but
the Finlanders give up their battle within a few days of the benefit.

1944
Due to war-time restrictions, the Red Sox open training camp at Tufts
College in Medford, Massachusetts with 4 players showing up. Their real
opening day for training will be on March 26, in Baltimore.

1946
In Daytona Beach, the Dodgers take the field against their minor-league farm
team, the Montreal Royals. With Jackie Robinson in the lineup for Montreal,
the game marks the first appearance of an integrated team in organized
baseball in this century. More than forty years later, the field will be
renamed Jackie Robinson Ballpark.

1949
At St. Petersburg, the Tigers and the Yankees slog through 17 innings before
the game is called a 2-2 tie. There are 28 walks and 42 runners left on base.

The Dodgers vote unanimously to retain the reserve clause. "The reserve
clause may have some inequities," says Pee Wee Reese, "but it is just as
important for the players as it is for the owners."

1953
The Braves club gets the use of Milwaukee County Stadium at a low rental.
The Braves' spring training game against the Yankees in Bradenton will prove
to be the team's last full one representing the city of Boston. During the
sixth inning of tomorrow's exhibition contest, the club learns the National
League has approved its shift next month to Milwaukee, in contrast to the
Junior Circuit that two days ago denied Bill Veeck permission to move his
Browns to Baltimore, citing insurmountable problems due to the short amount
of time left before Opening Day.

Veeck says that he will accept an offer of $2.475 million for his 80 percent
of the stock. Baltimore Mayor D'Alesandro seeks a syndicate to buy Veeck
out. The group will eventually purchase 206,250 shares at $12 per share,
a total purchase price of $2,475,000.

1965
Jackie Robinson is signed as a member of the ABC-TV baseball broadcast
team, becoming the first black to receive a network position broadcasting
baseball. ABC provides the first-ever nationwide baseball coverage with
weekly Saturday broadcasts on a regional basis.

1966
Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale play hardball when negotiating with the
Dodgers. The duo sign movie contracts showing they are serious about retiring
from baseball if their salary demands are not met.

1969
St. Louis trades 1B Orlando Cepeda to Atlanta for C/1B Joe Torre. Torre
will knock in 100 RBIs in each of the next 3 seasons topping it off with
the MVP Award in 1971.

1972
The Reds and Pirates play the first of a 3-game series in Caracas, Venezuela.

1976
Commissioner Kuhn orders owners to halt their lock-out and open spring
training camps as soon as possible. All clubs will comply within forty-eight
hours

1977
Federal Judge Frank McGarr rules in favor of Kuhn, saying that the
commissioner acted within his authority in voiding the 1976 player sales
engineered by A's owner Charlie Finley.

1978
For the St. Patrick's Day exhibition game, the Reds don green uniforms,
rather than their traditional red, starting an annual ritual that will
last a few seasons. The good luck works and the Reds beat the Yankees,
9-2. The Cardinals will be the next to follow suit.

1984
Ferguson Jenkins is given his unconditional release by the Cubs. He was
6-9 with a 4.30 ERA last season.

1986
During a Cactus League contest, Carney Lansford is credited with an unusual
two-run inside-the-park homer in the A's 5-3 victory over the Indians in
Phoenix. The Oakland infielder is able to circle the bases in the fourth
inning when Cleveland flychaser Mel Hall gets his shirt stuck on the
outfield fence and is unable to untangle himself to pick up the ball, that
is just barely out of his reach, while his teammate, shortstop Julio Franco,
closest to the play, is so incapacitated with laughter he is unable to help.

1988
Newly acquired Yankee Jack Clark tears a tendon in his calf while hitting
a homerun in a spring training game against the Orioles and will miss the
start of the regular season.

1992
Pitcher Hal Newhouser and umpire Bill McGowan are elected to the Baseball
Hall of Fame by the Veterans Committee.

1999
The Blue Jays fire manager Tim Johnson and replace him with Jim
Fregosi. Johnson had been under fire since admitting he had lied when he
said he was a Vietnam veteran.

2001
Joe Randa agrees to a two-year contract extension keeping him in Kansas
City until 2003 season. The Royals' third baseman batted .304 and knocked
in 106 runs for the Royals in 155 games last season.

2005
Several prominent modern day major league players testify before an 11+
hour House hearing on steroid use in the major leagues. Former HR king
Mark McGwire refuses to deny he used the illegal substances, repeatedly
saying he's "not here to talk about the past." Rafael Palmiero comes off the
best, condemning steroid use and wagging his finger at the Senators saying,
"he's never taken them." Other players testifying included Curt Schilling,
Sammy Sosa and former big leaguer Jose Canseco, whose recent book prompted
the congressional hearing.

2008
The Dodgers lose to the Astros, 12-10, in their last game at Dodgertown, the
team's spring training home since 1948. Eighty-one-year-old Carl Erskine,
who pitched the first game played at Holman Stadium 55 years ago, plays
the national anthem on his harmonica prior to the contest.

2009
The Brewers acquire Wes Littleton off waivers from Boston.

2010
In a rare spring training ruling, major league baseball suspends a player
as result of an incident that occurs in an exhibition game. Cliff Lee,
the Mariners' much-hyped acquisition, is fined and suspended for the first
five games of the regular season after throwing a pitch over the head of
Chris Snyder in a Catcus League contest against Arizona.

