Mar 20

1903
The 2 MLs agree to blacklist future contract jumpers.

The Braves break ground on Commonwealth Avenue and begin construction of
Braves Field. Owner Gaffney wants a large enough park so that inside-the-park
homers can be hit in 3 directions. The field will open on August 18th.

1909
Cubs catcher Johnny Kling wires the manager, Joe Tinker, in Shreveport, that
he is quitting, citing the need to take care of his business interests in
Kansas City. Teammates speculate that he is still upset at president Murphy,
who he blames for preventing him from buying a billiard establishment in
Cincinnati last spring. Murphy accused Reds owner, Herrmann, of tampering
with the catcher and the deal fell through. Kling owns a two floor billiard
parlor in Kansas City and also plans to play semi-pro baseball there.

1912
The Cubs jump off the train long enough to lose to the Montgomery, AL
Billikens, 4-1. Chicago manages just 4 hits.

1918
Although the leagues optimistically keep the schedules at 154 games,
the owners agree to halve the spring training time in an attempt to save
money. The Cards open their camp at Hot Wells, Arkansas.

1925
In a reprise of the 1924 WS, the New York Giants edge the Senators, 2-1,
at West Palm Beach's new Municipal Athletic Field.

1934
All-around female athlete Babe Didrickson pitches the first inning for
the Philadelphia Athletics in a spring training exhibition game against
the Brooklyn Dodgers. The founder of the LPGA gives up one walk but
no hits. Two days later she pitches again, this time one inning for the
St. Louis Cardinals against the Red Sox. She is less successful this time,
giving up 4 hits and 3 runs in the first inning. Bill Hallahan relieves
her. Didrickson does not have an at-bat in either game. She will also play
several games for the House of David this season. Didrickson is the 2nd of
only 2 females to play exhibitions with a ML team (1B Lizzie Murphy played
for an AL all-star team on August 14, 1922).

1935
At Ft. Myers, it's a close shave but the Philadelphia A's trim the House
of David, 4-3.

At St. Petersburg, the Cards set a spring training record, drawing 6,467
in a match against the Boston Braves. The big draw is Babe Ruth, who hits a
towering fly against Dizzy Dean, then, after Diz departs, laces two doubles
into the overflowing crowd. The Cards win, 5-4.

1937
Josh Gibson and Judy Johnson, two future Hall of Famers, are traded to the
Homestead Grays for two journeyman players and $2,500. The transaction is
called the biggest deal in Negro baseball history.

1943
LF Bob Johnson, a star for the Athletics since 1933, is traded to the Senators
for 3B Bob Estalella and Jimmy Pofahl. Johnson has led the A's in RBIs in each
of the last seven seasons:  no team has ever traded a slugger with that mark.

1953
Senator Edwin C. Johnson offers a bill to give clubs the sole right to
ban radio-TV broadcasts of ML games in their own territory. The Antitrust
Division of the Justice Department outlawed this practice in 1949. Johnson
believes that it started the decline of baseball in small towns and cities
throughout the country. His bill will restore the equity between large
communities and the small areas.

1954
The Cubs send SS Roy Smalley to the Braves for P Dave Cole, opening up the
shortstop job for Ernie Banks.

1955
While the Cubs are in Arizona beating their LA farm team, 7-0, major league
baseball is played at Chicago's Wrigley Field. In a rematch of last year's
World Series, the Giants beat the Indians again, 7-3. Mays and Rhodes hit
homers for New York, while Ralph Kiner's 9th inning homer is the first
score for Cleveland. A crowd of 24,434 is on hand.

1958
The Phillies acquire 1B Joe Collins from the Yankees. He decides to retire
rather than report, thereby canceling the deal.

1961
The Yankees announce the team will oppose any plan that would enable the
new National League expansion franchise to use Yankee Stadium. This decision
leaves the Polo Grounds as the only viable option for the new team.

1973
In an exhibition game played in Puerto Rico, Willie Mays, subbing for
manager Yogi Berra, pilots the Mets to an 8-3 win over the Pirates.

In a special election, the BBWAA select the late Roberto Clemente (393 out
of 424 votes) to be a member of the Hall of Fame. The usual five year rule
had been previously waived by the organization's board of directors.

1976
Leo Durocher, hired to manage the Yokohama Taiyo Whales (Japanese League),
is sick with hepatitis and asks for a 5-week delay in reporting. The Lip
receives a telegram from the Whales stating:  "Since the championship starts
in 20 days, it's better if you stay home and take care of yourself for the
remainder of the season."

1989
The office of baseball commissioner Peter Ueberroth announces MLB is
conducting an inquiry into "serious allegations" concerning Reds' manager
Pete Rose and gambling.

1995
The Orioles cancel the remainder of their spring training games because of
the team's refusal to use replacement players.

2000
The new World Umpires Association agrees to consolidate all umpires as part
of an interim agreement with the commissioner's office. The umps will merge
beginning with this season.

2002
The Commissioner's office announces MLB will continue the practice that
began after the September 11 attacks of singing 'God Bless America' during
the seventh-inning stretch in each team's first homestand. In addition,
an American flag patch will be worn on the jackets of all 30 major league
teams this season and special logos will be used on Opening Day, Memorial
Day weekend and the Fourth of July with Canadian versions designed for the
Blue Jays and Expos.

The Brewers trade C Henry Blanco to the Braves for C Paul Bako and P Jose
Cabrera.

2004
ML baseball announces that Devil Rays OF Josh Hamilton has been suspended
for the 2004 season for violating baseball's drug policy.

2005
The Mets trade C Jason Phillips to the Dodgers for P Kaz Ishii and cash
considerations.

2006
At San Diego's PETCO Park, Japan, managed by all-time international home-run
king, Sadaharu Oh, captures the first World Baseball Classic crown beating
Cuba, 10-6. Pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka is named MVP. The 16 team tournament,
which will take place again in the year 2009 ends with just two major
leaguers still in the game.

Pitching for power. The Reds trade OF Wily Mo Pena to the Red Sox for P
Bronson Arroyo. Arroyo, 14-10 in 2005, was slated for the bullpen. Pena,
24, hit .254 last year with 19 homers.

The White Sox and Mariners exchange former 1st round picks, with Chicago
sending OF Joe Borchard to Seattle in exchange for P Matt Thornton.

In his first appearance in a Nationals uniform, Alfonso Soriano refuses to
take the field when he is listed by manager, Frank Robinson, as the team's
starting LF in an exhibition game against the Dodgers. The one-time All-Star
second baseman has told the club he wants to remain at 2B. The team says it
will place him on the disqualified list preventing him from getting paid his
$10 million salary and accruing service time which is used to determine a
player's free agent status if he doesn't agree to the position change. The
suspension is avoided when Soriano takes the field on the 22nd.

2008
Behind the strong pitching of Brad Penny, the Dodgers make their Cactus
League debut, beating the White Sox in Phoenix, 8-2. The outing, which takes
place where Penny made his professional debut, earns the right-hander the
Opening Day start against the Giants.

