Mar 21

1903
Sporting Life, the nation's oldest baseball publication, begins its 21st
year. It will close during WW I.

1908
Ty Cobb signs for $4,000 and an $800 bonus if he hits over .300. He will
collect the bonus with a league-leading .324, one of only 3 AL regulars to
top .300 (the NL has 5) in 1908.

1921
Gene Paulette is barred from organized baseball for life for taking part
in throwing games. He played in more than 500 games, last playing for the
Phils in 1920.

1936
The Cincinnati Reds trade Jim Bottomley to the St. Louis Browns for utility
player Johnny Burnett. Sunny Jim will have a strong season in 1936 and,
midway through the 1937 season, will be named manager.

Joe DiMaggio runs his spring training record to 12 for 20 in an 11-2 Yankee
victory over the newly named Boston Bees. Before the next game is played,
the prize rookie is left unattended with his foot in a diathermy machine. The
resulting burn ends his spring training and delays his ML debut until May.

1942
The TSN quotes a spokesman for Cubs owner Wrigley on night baseball: "If
the fans do not come out in satisfactory numbers, especially to the Sunday
doubleheaders we've scheduled, then the organization will take it that they
want night ball, and we'll give it to them." The Cubs are collecting equipment
for night baseball, including shipping transformers from Catalina Island.

1951
Pittsburgh's lefty first baseman, Dale Long, makes his first appearance as
a catcher in an exhibition game against San Diego.

1954
Roy Campanella, in attempting to break up a DP in an exhibition game against
the Yankees, catches his spikes and chips the bone in his left hand. Though
he hits 2 homers on Opening Day, he will have surgery in early May for the
bone chips, returning May 30. As noted by Bill Deane, TSN will surmise that
the injury started earlier than the sliding mishap, occurring when Campy
was hit on the hand in the 1953 WS.

1957
Television Age reports that the major leagues will get $9.3 million for
TV-radio rights in 1957.

1958
The White Sox obtain OF Don Mueller from the Giants for cash.

1959
The Indians trade Larry Doby to the Tigers for Tito Francona. It turns out
to be a great swap for the Tribe as their new outfielder will hit .363,
while Doby will only play in just 16 games for Detroit.

1962
In a ceremony prior to the spring training game against New York in
Clearwater, the Phillies honor the visiting Robin Roberts, who was sold
to the Yankees in the off-season, by retiring his uniform number 36, the
familiar numerals he wore for 14 season with Philadelphia. The future Hall
of Fame right-hander starts the exhibition game against his former team,
giving up four runs in three innings, and is credited with the win in the
Bronx Bombers' 13-10 victory.

1966
In a spring exhibition game in Houston's Astrodome, the Dodgers and Astros
become the first major league teams to play on artificial grass. The
material, which would become known as AstroTurf, was developed by Monsanto
in an effort to overcome the team's inability to grow grass indoors.

1968
The new Kansas City American League franchise selects Royals as the team name.

1971
The Kansas City Royals new Baseball Academy is officially dedicated. Its
stated purpose is "to provide youth with the dual opportunity to pursue an
education and at the same time learn the skills of our national pastime."

1975
Yes, in baseball. Georgia Tech shuts out Earlham 41-0, setting an NCAA
records for scoring and for winning margin.

1977
Mark Fidrych, the 1976 Rookie of the Year, rips the cartilage in his left
knee and will undergo surgery in ten days. The injury will effectively end
the fabled career of The Bird.

1978
The Padres fire manager Alvin Dark, replacing him with pitching coach Roger
Craig. Dark becomes the only manager besides the Cubs Phil Cavarretta in
1954 to be fired during spring training.

1986
Pittsburgh Associates, a coalition of 13 public and private investors,
purchase the Pirates from the Galbreath family for $21.8 million.

The Yankees announce that their most celebrated off-season acquisition,
26-year-old pitcher Britt Burns, will not pitch at all this season because
of a chronic deteriorating hip condition.

1988
The Phillies trade 3B Rick Schu and outfielders Jeff Stone and Keith Hughes
to the Orioles for OF Mike Young.

1995
The Maryland House of Delegates approves legislation to bar teams playing
at Camden Yards from using replacement players.

1997
The pitching-poor Detroit Tigers release pitcher Jason Grimsley. Grimsley
posted a 5-7 record with a 6.84 ERA with the California Angels last season,
but was 0-3 this spring.

In an exhibition game, the White Sox 3B Robin Ventura dislocates his right
ankle and suffers a compound fracture in his lower leg. The injury occurs
while trying to protect a bruise on his left calf, he slides home and
catches the spikes on his right shoe. He will be out of action until July 24.

2000
Padres OF Al Martin is arrested on charges that he exchanged punches with
a woman who claims to be his wife. Shawn Haggerty-Martin said the couple
were married in Las Vegas two years ago. Martin said the couple had the
ceremony, but that he didn't think it was real. Haggerty-Martin contends
that the outfielder is a bigamist.

2001
The Yankees reobtain 3B prospect Drew Henson, along with OF Michael Coleman,
from the Reds for hot prospect OF Wily Mo Pena and cash. Henson agrees to a
6-year $17 million contract that calls for him to leave the University of
Michigan football program and to bypass the NFL. The 21-year-old Henson,
a QB, had been projected as a #1 draft choice. Henson will break his hand
in April and be out of action till June 14.

2002
The Phillies make public the one-day regular-season suspension of Larry Bowa
handed down by Major League Baseball vice president for on-field operations
Bob Watson. The action was taken as a result of the Philadelphia's manager's
"inappropriate conduct toward the umpire" when he became enraged with the
home plate umpire over two close calls on checked swings during an exhibition
game against the Indians on March 9.

2004
Tattoos are taboo for Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Justin Miller. Baseball tells
Miller he must wear long-sleeved shirts under his uniform when he pitches
because the tattoos on his arm are a distraction to hitters. More than 50
percent of Miller's body is covered by tattoos. "We had [umpire supervisor]
Jim McKean come in the other day and said that someone had complained about
Justin's tattoos and some of them are colored," Toronto manager Carlos
Tosca said. "All they have done is ask that he wear sleeves when he pitches."

2005
A line drive fractures the arm of Cubs reliever Joe Borowski. Borkowski
was recovering from a partially torn rotator cuff injury that ended his
2004 season last June.

2006
The Padres trade C David Ross to the Reds for P Bobby Basham.

2011
Citing a lack of velocity and command, Mets GM Sandy Alderson announces
the release of 29-year-old southpaw Oliver Perez, who is still owed $12
million on his contract. It is the second time in four days that the team
has cut a player still under a considerable contract, with second baseman
Luis Castillo being asked to leave despite his $6 million price tag.

2013
Mets third baseman David Wright is named the captain of the team, the fourth
player (John Franco, Keith Hernandez and Gary Carter) to be honored as
such by the franchise. The 30-year-old infielder, who signed an eight-year
$138 million contract in November, will be one of the current three major
leaguers, along with Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter and White Sox first
baseman Paul Konerko, to have the title with their club.

