Mar 22

1924
In a spring training game, Rogers Hornsby faces Walter Johnson for the second
and last time in his career, this time popping up and hitting into a DP.

1939
Pete Reiser, 0 for 3 yesterday against the Yankees, starts his 2nd spring
training game for the Dodgers. He homers in his first at-bat against the
Cardinals, and follows with a walk and 2 singles. He will have 10 straight
hits before striking out 3 times against the Yankees' Orel Hildebrand on the
28th. When Jack Haley relieves Hildebrand, Reiser hits a HR off him. Reiser
will go north with Brooklyn and play in an April 15th exhibition against
the Yankees in Ebbets Field before being farmed out to Elmira.

1962
Roger Maris declines to pose with Mets coach Rogers Hornsby because the
Hall of Famer had criticized him in the Rajah's book, My Wars with Baseball.

In the first meeting between the two clubs, the Mets defeat the World Champion
Yankees in a spring training game. Casey Stengel, the former skipper of
the Bronx Bombers, now the manager of the new National League expansion
team in New York, clearly wanting to beat his old club, calls upon veteran
outfielder Richie Ashburn, who delivers a ninth-inning pinch-hit single
giving the Amazins' the dramatic walk-off 4-3 victory at Al Lang Field.

A former Giant - requesting anonymity - reveals that Bobby Thomson's HR in
the 1951 playoffs against the Dodgers was helped by a sign-stealing clubhouse
spy. The spying is claimed to have gone on for the last 3 months of the
season. Thomson, along with former manager Leo Durocher, vehemently deny that
he received help, but a source close to the team confirms the spy operation.

1963
The New York Mets, who finished last in the National League with a 40-120
record in their inaugural season, purchase pitcher Carlton Willey from the
Milwaukee Braves. Willey will boost a pitching rotation that includes Roger
Craig, Al Jackson and Tracy Stallard. The Mets will improve to 51-111 in
that season.

1972
In what ranks as one of New York's best trades, They send 1B/OF Danny Cater
to the Red Sox for left-handed relief P Sparky Lyle. In 7 years with the
Yanks Lyle will appear in 420 games in relief, post a 57-40 record with 141
saves and a 2.41 ERA, win a Cy Young award, and help the team to 3 WS. The
deal is completed when the Yanks toss in SS Mario Guerrero.

Nick Mileti, owner of the NBA Cleveland Cavaliers, heads a group that
purchases the Cleveland Indians from Vernon Stouffer for an estimated $9
million. Stouffer had turned down an offer from George Steinbrenner to buy
the team, but when the AL owners reject his proposal to have the Indians
play some of their games in the New Orleans Superdome, Stouffer decides to
sell the team.

1981
Orioles manager Earl Weaver is suspended for 3 days by AL president Lee
MacPhail for removing his club from the field and forfeiting a spring
training game to the Royals. It is the 4th career suspension for Weaver,
who was upset that the umpires did not provide him with an official batting
order after Kansas City made numerous substitutions.

1986
Yankee pitcher Britt Burns, an 18-game winner with the White Sox last season,
will miss the entire season due to a degenerative hip condition.

1990
The ML umpires announce that they will boycott exhibition games to protest
not having been consulted in the revision of the regular season schedule
after the lockout. They will return to work on April 1st.

1991
At Sotheby's in New York, a 1909-10 tobacco card in mint condition of Honus
Wagner sells for $451,000 (with the 10% auction house premium) to hockey
star Wayne Gretzky and LA Kings owner Bruce McNall. A 1952 Topps card of
Mickey Mantle goes for $49,500, tripling the pre-auction estimate, while a
baseball, signed by 12 players at the 1939 Hall of Fame induction ceremony,
sells for $20,900.

1993
Cleveland pitchers Steve Olin and Tim Crews are killed, and Bob Ojeda is
seriously injured (but will return to play major league baseball), when the
motorboat in which they are riding strikes a pier on Little Lake Nellie in
Florida. Crews and Olin are the first active major leaguers to die since
Thurm Munson in 1979. The Dodgers, for whom Crews played the previous 6
years and was very popular, will retire his #52.

1996
The Tigers trade Ps Sean Bergman and Cade Gaspar, and OF Todd Steverson,
to the Padres in exchange for OF Melvin Nieves, C Raul Casanova and P
Richie Lewis.

1997
The Mets, loaded with middle infielders, add two more, acquiring SS Manny
Alexander and 3B Scott McClain from Baltimore. The Mets give up hard throwing
reliever Hector Ramirez in exchange.

Reds catcher Joe Oliver tears a ligament in his thumb making a tag at home
plate, and will need surgery to repair it. Oliver will be out of action at
least a month.

1999
The Cardinals announce that P Matt Morris, expected to be the ace of
their staff, will miss the entire season because of a torn ligament in his
right elbow.

2002
After a poor spring trying to make the Dodgers as a bench player, 38-year-old
Dante Bichette (.299, 274, 1,141) announces his retirement. The four-time
All-Star played with the Angels, Brewers, Rockies, Reds and Red Sox during
his 14-year major league career.

2004
The Cardinals acquire IF/OF Tony Womack from the Red Sox for P Matt Duff.

2005
The Red Sox send OF Adam Hyzdu to the Padres. In return, SD sends P Blaine
Neal to Boston.

Eleven homeruns shy of passing Babe Ruth on the all-time list, during a
10-minute impromptu press conference Barry Bonds uses the word "tired"
14 times and raises the issue of his retirement blaming the press for his
troubles. Bonds, using crutches after his second knee operation in two
months, continues to be plagued with questions about steroids. And two days
ago Kimberly Bell talked about her nine-year relationship with the married
Bonds. She alleged that Bonds used steroids, gave her $80,000 he supposedly
had received for signing baseballs, and told her how to deposit the money
to avoid an IRS audit. Ms. Bell has supplied no evidence to support the
allegations regarding Bonds' steroid use, while Bond's former business
partner, who claims it was he who gave Bell the $80,000, admits he has no
idea whether Bonds paid taxes on the money.

2010
With the same pen he used to sign his rookie contract in 2001, Twins
catcher Joe Mauer (.365, 28, 96) signs a $184 million eight-year contract
extension keeping him with the small market team through 2018. Last year,
the 26-year-old backstop, after starting the season on the DL as a result
of back surgery the previous year, captured his third batting crown and
was named the American League's Most Valuable Player.

2016
In a game attended by Barack Obama, the first sitting United States
president on Cuban soil since 1928, the Rays beat the Cuban National team,
4-1, marking the first time in 17 years a major league team has visited the
island nation. In 1999 at Havana's Estadio, the Orioles edge the home team,
3-2, thanks to a Harold Baines' eventual game-winning hit in the 11th inning.

