Mar 24

1911
Matthew Stanley Robison, president of the Cardinals, dies unexpectedly. He
leaves the club and the bulk of his estate to his niece, Mrs. Helene Hathaway
Britton, the first female owner of a ML club.

1929
Portland's (PCL) Denny Williams is killed and 3 other players injured when
their car is struck by another car. They were driving from San Diego to spring
training in Santa Ana. On March 31 PCL player Clyde Nance dies in an auto
accident near Merced, California. Nance is a pitcher with the SF Missions.

1933
Babe Ruth signs for $52,000, down from last year's $75,000. The large cut
is significant of the Depression era.

1936
Paul Dean follows his brother into the fold and signs for $10,000.

1946
In Birmingham, Alabama, police pull Edward Klep from the lineup of the
Buckeyes, a visiting Negro American League team. The first white player in
organized black baseball is told to change into his civilian clothes and
sit away from his teammates in the "whites only" section of Rickwood Field.

1947
During a four-hour hearing with Commissioner Chandler at the Sarasota Terrace
Hotel, Leo Durocher admits to playing occasional card games for money with
Kirby Higbe.

1952
Cardinal pitcher Bob Slaybaugh is hit in the left eye by a line drive,
necessitating an operation to remove the eye. Slaybaugh will pitch briefly
in the minors in 1954 and then retire.

1953
Larry Raines, on leave from military service, plays his first game for the
Hankyu Braves. He will stay for the 1954 season, return in 1962, and will
end his Japanese career with a batting average of .302.

1956
The Indians sign OF/1B Sam Mele, just released by the Red Sox.

1959
In Havana, The Reds and Dodgers play an exhibition game. For a pre-game
photo, Reds Pete Whisenant swaps his mitt for a Castro rebel's machine gun.

1960
Commissioner Ford Frick says he will not allow the Continental League to
pool players in the Western Carolinas League as it would violate existing
major-minor league agreements.

1961
The New York State Senate approves $55 million for a new baseball stadium
at Flushing Meadows Park in Queens.

In Mesa, Arizona LF Orlando Cepeda gives the Cubs 2 runs then hits a 3-run
HR as the Giants shave the Cubs, 13-12.

1962
The Phillies trade holdout 3B Andy Carey and IF Lou Vassie to the White
Sox for P Cal McLish. Chicago then trades Carey to the Dodgers for IF Ramon
Conde and Jim Koranda.

The Red Sox swap P Tom Borland for 18-year veteran Dave Philley, who was
picked by the Houston Colt 45's in the expansion draft.

1967
The Astros trade infielder Sandy Alomar to the Mets for infielder Derrell
Griffith.

1970
Commissioner Kuhn orders a halt to the use of X-5 balls.

1972
The Reds send P Tony Cloninger to the Cards for veteran Julian Javier.

1973
The Indians trade C Ray Fosse and SS Jack Heidemann to the A's for C Dave
Duncan and OF George Hendrick.

1982
The Dodgers automatically renew Fernando Valenzuela's contract when he ends
his three week holdout, but the portly left handed pitcher refuses to sign
it. After earning just $42,500 while winning the NL Cy Young and Rookie of
the Year Awards last season, the 21-year-old portly lefthander had asked
for a raise to $1 million in 1982. The Dodgers unilaterally renewed his
contract for a reported $350,000 instead.

1983
The Executive Board of the International Olympic Committee agrees to stage
a 6-team exhibition baseball tournament as part of the 1984 Summer Olympics
to be held in Los Angeles.

1984
The Tigers trade utility player John Wockenfuss and outfielder Glenn Wilson
to the Phillies for relief pitcher Willie Hernandez and first baseman
Dave Bergman.

1996
At Legends Field, New York Yankee infielder Tony Fernandez fractures his
right elbow in a 8-3 game with the Astros, and is placed on the 60-day DL.

2001
During an exhibition game against the Giants, Diamondback hurler Randy
Johnson's fastball hits and instantly kills a dove flying in front of home
plate. The bird appears to explode as the National League Cy Young winner's
pitch sends it over catcher Rod Barajas' head.

2002
The Expos trade prospects Jason Bay and Jim Serrano to the Mets for journeyman
Lou Collier. Bay hit .361 in the class A Midwest League.

2003
The Devil Rays send OF Jason Conti to the Brewers for switch-hitting C
Javier Valentin.

The Expos obtain minor leaguer Edwards Guzman and P Livan Hernandez from
the Giants in exchange for P Jim Brower and a player to be named. The
trade reunites Livan with his older brother, Orlando, otherwise known as
"El Duque." The brothers last played together on the Cuban National team. A
week from now, assault charges against Livan for an incident in Miami where
he swung golf clubs at a 65-year-old man will be dropped. He will attend
anger management classes and perform community service.

2005
In Tucson, a swarm of bees interrupts a Cactus League game between the
Rockies and the Diamondbacks. The bees chase Rocks pitcher Darren Oliver
from the mound and the game is delayed 20 minutes. Oliver thinks it is
the coconut oil gel in his hair that attracted them. By the time play is
resumed the bees have spread all over the field and SS Sergio Santos is
chased to deep center field. The game is called after five innings.

In Jupiter, Cards PH Rick Ankiel hits an 8th inning double in a 5-1 win
over the Nationals. It is Ankiel's first hit since switching from pitching
to playing the outfield.

2006
At Mickey Mantle's restaurant in New York City, the U.S. Postal Service
unveils the "Baseball Sluggers" postage stamps which will be issued on
July 15 at Yankee Stadium prior to the game against the White Sox. The four
Hall of Famers featured in the set all have roots in New York with Mickey
Mantle (Yankees), Mel Ott (Giants) and Roy Campanella (Dodgers) playing
their entire careers in the Big Apple, and the fourth, Hank Greenberg,
setting schoolboy records at James Monroe High School in the Bronx.

After first signing with the Red Sox and then allegedly signing with the
A's, Juan Gonzalez is now working out with the Rockies. The Boston Herald
calls Gonzalez signing with the A's "a complete figment of his imagination."

Tigers P Kenny Rogers makes a plea bargain in which he will attend an anger
management class in order to resolve the charges resulting from him knocking
down a cameraman late last June.

2008
The Twins agree to a new deal with their all-star closer signing Joe Nathan
(1.88, 37 saves) to a $47 million four-year contract, which includes a
2012 club option. The 33-year-old right-hander's 160 saves over the past
4 seasons is tied with Mariano Rivera of the Yankees for the most in the
American League.

On the South Lawn of the White House, the Washington Nationals Presidential
character mascots take part in the traditional White House Easter Egg
Roll. It is reported Thomas Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln
and George Washington all were very comfortable in their surroundings.

