Mar 25

1910
Hugh Chalmers, the president of the Chalmers Motor Car Company of Detroit,
announces his Model 30, one of the most luxurious autos of its day, will be
awarded to the player with the highest batting average in each league this
season. The National Commission accepts. The prize will lead to controversy
when Cleveland infielder Nap Lajoie beats out seven bunts, thanks to Browns'
Red Corriden purposely playing deep at third base, to go 8 for 9 on the last
day of the season raising his average to .384 in an attempt to surpass Ty
Cobb for the batting title.

1917
John McGraw signs a five-year contract for $40,000 a year plus bonuses. The
contract makes him the highest paid figure in baseball.

Babe Ruth pitches four innings against Brooklyn, allowing just one hit,
before giving way to a group of inept Red Sox relievers. Brooklyn wins,
11-2, and reigns as "Hot Springs Champs." For tomorrow's game in Memphis,
players on both teams will sport numbers on their sleeves, the idea of Robins'
owner Charles Ebbets. His reasoning is that fans in non-Major League cities
would be unfamiliar with the players.

1920
In a spring training match between the Yankees and Dodgers, a sweeping
inside curve ball by Brooklyn's Little Jeff Pfeffer beans Chick Fewster
striking the Yankee SS behind the ear and flattening him. Fewster revives
10 minutes later but soon loses the ability to speak. Taken to the hospital
with a skull fracture and a blood clot on his brain, Fewster will recover
slowly and return to play in mid-season.

1934
In New Orleans, Babe Didrickson takes the mound again, this time for the
New Orleans Pelicans against a split squad of the Cleveland Indians. She
throws two scoreless innings and lines out in her only plate appearance. In
nearby Lafayette, Louisiana manager Walter Johnson pitches for the other
Indian squad against the KC Blues.

1935
The Cubs sell Pat Malone to the Yankees. The right-hander will go 12-4
in 1936, but will only post a 19-13 record in his three years with the
Bronx Bombers.

1944
The Negro League Chicago American Giants leave to train in Memphis. The
Cleveland Buckeyes are in Clarksdale, Mississippi, the Kansas City Monarchs
in Houston, and the Indianapolis Clowns are in Montgomery, Alabama. The
Monarchs will be at Pelican Park in New Orelans for an Easter exhibition
against the Cuban Giants (as noted in the Chicago Defender).

1945
A group of blacks appear at the Dodger offices to ask for tryouts for aging
Negro Leaguers P Terris McDuffie and 1B Dave Thomas. The two will work out
for Branch Rickey in Brooklyn on April 7.

1953
The Browns sign free agent Bob Elliott. The veteran third baseman will play
just 48 games before being dealt to the White Sox.

1959
Infielder Bill White, along with third baseman Ray Jablonski, is traded to
the Cardinals by the Giants in exchange for right-handed pitching prospect
Don Choate and left-hander Sam Jones. Although southpaw 'Sudden Sam'
will have three solid seasons in San Francisco, including a 20-win season,
the Redbirds' new first baseman will become a perennial all-star and gold
glover during his eight-year tenure in St. Louis.

1962
Elvin Tappe will be this season's first head coach for the Chicago Cubs,
who have operated without a manager since 1960.

1963
The Reds sell journey man pitcher Johnny Klippstein to the Phillies. After
going 7-7 over two seasons with Philadelphia, the 37-year-old box salesman
will help the Twins win the pennant in 1965 posting a 9-3 record.

1965
Pittsburgh 2B Bill Mazeroski suffers a broken bone in his right foot. He
will not start until May.

1968
Rocky Colavito, giving up just one hit in two and a third innings of
relief, is credited with a win when the Yankees beat Detroit, 6-5. The
Yankees outfielder, who also homers in the game, will be the last position
player to notch a major league victory until Colorado catcher Brent Mayne
accomplishes the feat in 2000.

1981
Phillies trade Bob Walk to the Braves for outfielder Gary Matthews. The
team's new center fielder will play outstanding defense along with three solid
seasons at the plate for Philadelphia while Atlanta's new right-hander will
compile a 12-13 record with a 4.85 during his three-year tenure with the club.

1985
An Illinois judge rules that state and city laws which effectively ban night
baseball at Chicago's Wrigley Field are constitutional. After being forced to
give up a home game during the 1984 NLCS, and threatened with playing future
post-season games at another stadium entirely in order to accommodate network
television's prime-time schedules, the Cubs had sued to overturn the laws.

1989
The Indians and Pirates swap shortstops, with Felix Fermin going to Cleveland
in exchange for Jay Bell.

1995
Replacement player Dave Shotkoski, a pitcher with the Braves, is shot to
death in a robbery attempt near the team's hotel in West Palm Beach, Florida.

1997
In a trade reflecting current baseball economics, the Indians send Kenny
Lofton (.317, 14, 67) and Alan Embree (3-1, 2.79) to the Braves for Marquis
Grissom (.262, 10, 57) and David Justice (.337, 30, 88). The swap of the
two Gold Glove center fielders and the veteran Justice saves $6.8 million in
salaries for Atlanta Both players have several years left on their contracts,
while Lofton, considered the best leadoff hitter in baseball, is in the last
year of his. The reduction in payroll helps Atlanta sign hurlers Greg Maddux
($57.5 million, five-years) and Tom Glavine ($34 million, four-years).

The Kansas City Royals release Bob Hamelin, the 1994 AL Rookie of the
Year. The 29-year-old Hamelin never lived up to his first year, when he
smacked 24 homers in the strike-shortened season. The Tigers will sign
Hamelin to a minor-league contract.

1999
Angels P Jason Dickson undergoes surgery to repair torn tissue in his right
shoulder. He is expected to miss at least 4 months of the season.

The Mets sign free agent P Orel Hershiser to a contract.

2000
Boston pitcher Juan Pena is hit on the right wrist by a ball off the bat
of the Reds Sean Casey during a spring training game. According to the Sox,
he suffers a torn MCL in his right elbow and will be out for the year.

2004
The Cubs trade Ps Juan Cruz and Steve Smyth to the Braves for pitcher Andy
Pratt and IF Richard Lewis.

The Astros get IF Mike Lamb from the Yankees for P Juan DeLeon.

The Expos and Diamondbacks exchange pitchers, with John Patterson going to
Montreal and Randy Choate to Arizona.

2006
Acknowledging he may never play again, Jeff Bagwell announces he will start
the season on the 15-day disabled list and will seek consultation to find out
if removing bone spurs from his shoulder would be beneficial in prolonging
his career. Dr. James Andrews told him that he has numerous degenerative bone
spurs in his shoulder which need to be removed; but, the doctors thought
that removing them during his last shoulder surgery would either slow down
or prevent him from recovering. The 37-year-old first baseman must stay on
the injured list all season for the Astros to collect $15.6 million of the
$17 million guaranteed contract from an insurance claim filed in January.

2008
At the Tokyo Dome in Japan, the Red Sox beat the A's, 6-5, in the earliest
major league opener ever played. Manny Ramirez' tenth inning double gives
the victory to Hideki Okajima, who used to pitch in this stadium for the
hometown Yomiuri Giants.

Miguel Cabrera (.320, 34, 119), acquired by the Tigers in a trade at the
winter meetings with the Marlins, agrees to a $152.3 million eight-year deal
to play with the team. The All-Star third baseman had previously agreed to
an $11.3 million one-year contract in January.

2009
The Brewers release Trot Nixon.

