Mar 27

1902
A Chicago Daily News headline reads, 'Manager of the Cubs is in Doubt
Only on Two Positions', marking the first time that the team's nickname
has appeared in print. Although the moniker has been around since 1890,
the Orphans, also once known as the Colts and White Stockings, will not
officially adopt Cubs as the club's new name until 1907.

1935
With two outs in the bottom of the ninth and the bases loaded at Asahi Field,
Russell Hinaga singles plating the winning run to give the San Jose Asahis
a 3-2 victory over the visiting Tokyo Giants. The visitors will avenge
their loss to the 'Morning Suns', a Japanese American semi-pro team, the
following season.

1938
White Sox SS Luke Appling, sliding into 2nd in an exhibition game against
the Cubs, fractures his right leg in 2 places and will miss almost half
the season. He'll return July 8.

1941
The Yankees sell P Steve Sundra to the Senators. Sundra, 11-1, in 1939,
slipped in 1940 to 4-6.

1961
In a spring training game Cardinals P Larry Jackson suffers a broken jaw
when hit by a fragment of Dodger Duke Snider's broken bat. Jackson will be
sidelined 4 weeks.

1973
Twins' pitcher Jim Perry becomes the first player to use the '10 and 5 rule'
when he okays his own trade to the Tigers for minor league pitcher Dan Fife
and cash.

Two days before his 29th birthday, the Braves release former 30-game winner
Denny McLain ending his stormy big-league career. In a career which spanned
ten years, McLain compiled a 131-92 record with an ERA of 3.39

The Red Sox swap Andy Kosco and Phil Gagliano to the Reds for P Mel Behney,
who was 0-2 for the Reds in 1970. His ML record will remain unchanged.

1978
A's owner Charley Finley cancels the deal that would have sent the A's to
Denver, under the sponsorship of oilman Marvin Davis. Objecting to some of
the details, Finley decides to call off negotiations.

1979
The Phillies trade 3B Richie Hebner and 2B Jose Moreno to the Mets for P
Nino Espinosa.

1981
Much to the chagrin of the Fenway Faithful, Gold Glove catcher Carlton
Fisk is declared a free agent by major league baseball. The 33-year-old
backstop can now negotiate with other teams for his services because he
received his contract from the Red Sox two days after the deadline.

1982
The Mariners sign 43-year-old Gaylord Perry to a one-year contract. The
'Ancient Mariner' needs only three victories to reach the 300 win mark.

1984
The Phillies trade outfielders Gary Matthews and Bob Dernier and pitcher
Porfi Altamirano to the Cubs for reliever Bill Campbell and catcher Mike
Diaz. Matthews was the MVP of the NLCS last season, while Campbell led the NL
with 82 appearances. Dernier will win a Gold Glove in CF for Chicago and help
them reach the playoffs. His 45 steals will be the most by a Cub since 1907.

J. R. Richard is released by the Astros, ending his professional baseball
career. Richard was 0-2 with a 13.68 ERA in 6 starts for Tucson (Pacific
Coast League) last season.

1986
Major league baseball's Rules Committee votes to change the DH rule for
the WS, allowing a DH to be used in all games played in the AL club's home
park. Since 1976, the DH had been used in all games in alternating years.

1987
In what will turn out to be an extremely lopsided trade, the Mets send C
Ed Hearn and minor leaguers Rick Anderson and Mauro Gozzo to the Royals in
exchange for David Cone and minor leaguer Chris Jelic. Cone will blossom into
one of the NL's better starters, posting a 20-3 record for the Mets in 1988.

1989
Sports Illustrated exposes Pete Rose's gambling activities. The article
alleges 'Charlie Hustle' bet from the Riverfront dugout using hand gestures
with an associate.

1992
The Brewers trade IF Gary Sheffield and P Geoff Kellogg to the Padres in
exchange for P Ricky Bones, SS Jose Valentin and OF Matt Mieske.

A lawsuit is filed against Mets P David Cone by 3 women charging him with
exposing himself to them while in the bullpen at Shea Stadium.

1993
The Marlins trade 3B Gary Scott and a player to be named to the Reds in
exchange for P Chris Hammond.

The Cubs put 2B Ryne Sandberg (broken hand) and SS Shawon Dunston (lower
back rehab) on the DL. The two will miss opening day for the first time in
9 years together.

1994
The Orioles trade 1B David Segui to the Mets in exchange for P Tom Wegmann
and SS Kevin Baez.

1995
The National Labor Relations board files for an injunction to restore
previous work rules to the game.

2000
The Blue Jays sign former Rookie of the Year OF Marty Cordova to a contract.

The White Sox obtain SS Jose Olmedo from the Indians for future
considerations. Tomorrow, they option SS Mike Caruso to Charlotte.

2002
After being told he would not be an everyday player, thirty-seven-year-old
Jose Canseco is given his release by the Expos. The 1988 American League
MVP, who needs 38 homers to reach 500, batted .258 and hit 16 homeruns for
the White Sox last season while appearing in 76 games.

In need of relief help, the Cubs trade RHP Julian Tavarez and three prospects
to the Marlins for reliever Antonio Alfonseca and RHP Matt Clement. The
three - C Ryan Jorgensen, and pitchers Jose Cuetro and Dontrelle Willis -
are rated among the Cubs' top 20 prospects. Alfonseca, nicknamed El Pulpo
(octopus) because he was born with 6 fingers on each hand and 6 toes on
each foot, will replace the injured Tom Gordon.

2003
On Ebay, the online auction house, a 1976 World Series ring, given to Reds
pitcher Will McEnaney, is sold for $6500.01. It is believed to be the first
sale on Ebay of a non-replica WS ring.

2004
The Mets send OF Timo Perez to the White Sox in exchange for P Matt Ginter.

The Tigers sign free agent P Ugueth Urbina to a contract, and after 3
innings of minor league work, will bring him up.

2008
At the start of spring training, Hideki Matsui, who already had plans to be
wed in a few weeks, a fact not known to the team, makes a wager with some of
his teammates about who would be the first to get married. A very surprised
Derek Jeter and Bobby Abreu agree to pay off the bet after learning the
Yankee slugger pulled a fast one by getting 'hitched' in New York on the
club's off day yesterday.

2009
In a Kansai Independent League game played at the Osaka Dome, knuckleballer
Eri Yoshida makes her debut becoming Japan's first female professional
baseball player. The 17-year-old faces two batters on Opening Day, walking
one and striking out the other, in the ninth inning of the Kobe 9 Cruise's
5-0 victory over the hometown Gold Villicanes.

2011
Boston starter Daisuke Matsuzaka will make a $1 million contribution to
the Red Sox Foundation for victims of the earthquake and tsunami in his
native Japan. The team's official charity has raised more than $1.3 million
in response to the March 11th disaster, including personal donations from
other Japanese players Hideki Okajima, Junichi Tazawa and Itsuki Shoda.

The Nationals trade Nyjer Morgan to the Brewers in exchange for minor
league infielder Cutter Dykstra and cash. Washington sends the light-hitting
fleet-footed outfielder to Milwaukee to obtain Class A minor league third
baseman, the son of former major leaguer Lenny Dykstra.

