Mar 29

1905
A committee of Washington writers votes for "Nationals" as the AL team
nickname, but "Senators" continues as the general favorite.

1907
Boston OF Cozy Dolan, who played the full schedule of NL games in 1906,
dies of typhoid fever in Louisville. The Doves cancel the remainder of
their spring training schedule.

1913
In a pre-season matchup Washington pummels the Phillies, 12-1. Alexander,
pitching the middle 3 innings is hit hard.

1933
Chicago Cubs OF Kiki Cuyler, who missed the first half of 1932 with a broken
left leg, breaks his other leg in another spring training accident. He will
be out until June 22.

1935
The Cardinals release Dazzy Vance. The future Hall of Fame hurler will
spend his last season with the Dodgers in Brooklyn.

1942
The Cards beat the Yankees, 3-2, to win the championship of St. Petersburg,
6 games to 3. The Yanks have been tied but never beaten since 1926, when
they dropped the local series to the Braves.

1944
Oakland loans Los Angeles 3 players for a PCL exhibition game after 5 Los
Angeles players suffer various injuries in an automobile accident. Los
Angeles beats Oakland 6-2.

1948
Thirty-four players participate in an unusually long exhibition game when
the Yankees and the Red Sox take 17 innings to play a 2-2 tie. The four-hour
two-minute contest, which is called by umpire Bill Summers to allow Boston
to catch their bus back to Sarasota, featured the Bronx Bombers scoring
runs in the bottom of the ninth and tenth innings to keep the score knotted,
but failed to push the winning run across the plate in the final frame when
Frank Crosetti attempted a two-out bunt to squeeze in the runner on third
base. Two years ago in Miami the Braves and Giants played 17-innings for
an NL pre-season record.

1954
When the Cubs go 5-15 in spring training, Phil Cavarretta gives Cubs owner
Phil Wrigley an honest assessment of the team's chances, and is fired for
his "defeatist attitude." He's the first manager to be given the gate during
spring training. Stan Hack replaces him. Cavarretta is right; the Cubs will
drop to 7th.

1960
The Giants send P Al Worthington to the Red Sox for OF Jim Marshall. After
6 appearances for the Bosox, the White Sox will buy him from Boston and use
him in 4 games before releasing him to Minneapolis in May, his 3rd stop in
the Twin City. Reportedly, Worthington disagreed with Chicago owner Bill
Veeck's use of the scoreboard to steal signs. (Dewey & Acocella).

1961
Powel Crosley's will directs the Reds to stay in Cincinnati and be run under
nonprofit ownership. The late Crosley's daughter and husband, Stanley Kess,
will head the foundation.

1973
At the suggestion of A's owner, Charles Finley, orange-colored balls are
used in an 11-5 exhibition game loss to the Indians. The concept is dropped
when Cleveland outfielder George Hendrick, who hit three home runs in the
contest, claimed he had difficulty picking up the ball due to the lack of
red seams on a white sphere.

1975
Mel Stottlemyre, suffering from a torn rotator cuff, is given his
unconditional release by the Yankees. The team's future pitching coach
compiled a 164-139 record and a 2.97 ERA as well as tossing 40 shutouts.

1978
The Orioles release reliever Ed Farmer, who will reemerge with the White Sox.

1994
The Padres trade 2B Harold Reynolds to the Angels in exchange for P Hilly
Hathaway.

1995
Players vote to return to work if a U.S. District Court judge supports the
NLRB's unfair labor practices complaint against the owners. By a vote of
26-2, owners support the use of replacement players.

1996
The Giants sign pitcher Mark Gardner, released by the Florida Marlins.

1999
The Braves announce that P Kerry Ligtenberg will undergo reconstructive
surgery on his right elbow and be out for the season. Ligtenberg was
diagnosed with a partially torn ligament in his elbow on March 12.

The Padres obtain C-IF Phil Nevin and minor league P Keith Volkman from the
Angels in exchange for IF Andy Sheets and minor league OF Gus Kennedy. Nevin
will go on the DL in 3 days because of a strained muscle.

The Pirates acquire catcher Tim Laker from the Dodgers for a player to be
named later. Much later - 26 months. The deal will finally be completed
in early July, 2001 when LA selects P Jason Ryan from Nashville (AAA),
Laker will be gone from the Bucs by then.

2000
The Cubs open the major league season in the Tokyo Dome in Tokyo, Japan by
defeating the Mets, 5-3, in the first big league game ever played outside
of North America. Jon Lieber gets the victory and new ace Mike Hampton takes
the loss. Shane Andrews hits the first HR of the new millennium. Mark Grace
and Mike Piazza also homer.

The Astros and Phils swap lefty pitchers, with Houston getting Yorkis Perez
and the Phils receiving Trever Miller.

Diamondbacks slugger Matt Williams breaks a bone in his right foot in the
D'Backs last exhibition game in Tucson versus the Mariners when the All-Star
3B fouls a Frankie Rodriguez pitch off his foot. Williams broke the same
bone in 1995 and missed 68 games.

2001
Todd Helton signs a nine-year $141.5 million contract extension making him
the highest-paid player in Rockies' history. Last season the Colorado first
baseman batted .372, hit 42 homers and knocked in 147 runs.

2002
Rickey Henderson is added to the Red Sox Opening Day roster when his contract
is purchased from Triple-A Pawtucket. The future Hall of Fame outfielder,
who joined the exclusive 3,000-hit club on the final day of last season, will
begin his 24th year in the majors appearing with his eighth different club.

Major League baseball announces there will be a minute of silence at 9:11 at
every major league team's first night game this season to remember September
11th's tragic events. The song 'God Bless America' will continue to be sung
during the seventh-inning stretch of all games.

Miller Park's retractable roof will be used only on a limited basis at the
start of the season as engineers try to eliminate persistent noise coming
from the year-old roof.

2004
The Indians send IF Ricky Gutierrez to the Mets for a player to be named.

Jayson for Jason. The Blue Jays traded OF Jayson Werth to the Dodgers for
P Jason Frasor. The Cardinals traded OF Kerry Robinson to the Padres for
OF Brian Hunter.

2005
The Angels obtain P Bret Prinz from the Yankees for C Wil Nieves.

The Cardinals send lefty Mike Myers to the Red Sox. In return, St. Louis
receives OF Carlos de la Cruz and P Kevin Ool.

The Indians trade P Cliff Bartosh to the Cubs for P Ronald Bay.

The Mets get IF Benji Gil from the Mariners for cash.

2006
The Indians sign CF Grady Sizemore to a 6-year $23.45 million contract. It
is the largest contract ever for a player with less than 2 years experience,
breaking the mark held by Nomar Garciaparra.

2007
In a split-squad game between the Cubs and Diamondbacks at Mesa's HoHoKam
Park, Ria Cortesio becomes the first female ump to work a major league
exhibition game since Pam Postema in 1989. The thirty-year-old who is
starting her ninth year overall as an arbitrator and fifth in Double-A
minor league ball, hopes to be the first woman umpire in major league history.

2008
In an exhibition game celebrating the club's 50th anniversary celebration
of their move west from Brooklyn, the Dodgers lose to the Red Sox in front
of 115,300 fans at the LA Coliseum. It is the largest crowd ever to watch
a baseball game surpassing the previous record when approximately 114,000
patrons attended an exhibition contest between the Australian national team
and an American services team during the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne.

2009
The Yankees dedicate a permanent September 11 memorial at the entrance of
George M. Steinbrenner Field, the team's Spring Training home in Tampa,
Florida. The tribute to the victims and their families of the terrorist
attacks of 2001 features a foundation in the shape of the Pentagon which
supports two towers made from steel from the World Trade Center placed on
a grassy spot representing the heroes of United Flight 93, who perished in
a field in Pennsylvania.

In the first baseball game ever played at Citi Field, John Franco throws out
the ceremonial first pitch to a standing ovation from the crowd of 22,397
attending the collegiate match up between St. John's and Georgetown. The
former reliever, who spent 15 seasons with the Mets, goes to the mound
wearing a familiar blue and orange jacket, but takes it off revealing
the colors of his alma mater, a Red Storm jersey with his No. 45, before
throwing his signature pitch to catcher Danny Benedetti, a breaking ball
in the dirt. The weather dampened the schools' hope of breaking the NCAA
attendance record of 40,106, set during a game between San Diego State and
Houston played at PETCO Park in 2004.

Dontrelle Willis is placed on the 15-day disabled list by the Tigers. D-Train,
unsuccessful since winning 22 games with the Marlins in 2003, has been
diagnosed with an anxiety disorder, believed by the doctors to be easily
treatable, according to the southpaw.

2010
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig announces President Obama will throw out
the first pitch prior to Washington playing Philadelphia at Nationals Park
on Opening Day, continuing a century-old tradition. In 1910, William Howard
Taft became the first Commander-In-Chief to toss the ceremonial first pitch
to start the season.

2013
Tiger right-hander Justin Verlander agrees to a seven-year $180-million
contract, the richest deal for a pitcher in baseball history. The 2011
American League MVP and Cy Young Award winner, already signed through 2014
under a previous $80-million five-year deal, decides not to test free agency
in two years, stating that "the pull of Detroit was too much".

The Giants and Buster Posey, last season's National League MVP, come to
terms on an eight-year $159-million contract extension that includes a full
no-trade clause. The deal, which will keep the 26-year-old backstop in a
Giants' uniform through 2021, is the second-richest contract ever given to
a catcher, surpassed only by the Twins signing Joe Mauer to an eight-year
$184-million pact.

2018
Matt Davidson of the Chicago White Sox became the fourth player in the
live-ball era (since 1920) to hit three homeruns on opening day joining
Dmitri Young (2005), Tuffy Rhodes (1994) and George Bell (1988). Davidson
accomplished this feat against the Kansas City Royals.

George Springer of Houston, with his Opening Day lead-off homerun against
the Texas Rangers, Springer became the first player in Major League history
to lead off back-to-back seasons with a homerun.

2019
Paul Goldschmidt of the Cardinals became the first player in Major League
history to hit three homeruns in either his first or second game with a
new team. He accomplished the feat against the Milwaukee Brewers.
