Mar 30

1907
The Sporting Life reprints an article from the Chicago Tribune on hand
signals:  "The Tribune's agitation for a system of umpire's gestures to
indicate decisions seems to be as far-reaching as popular. Chief Zimmer
has been using signs for balls and strikes and delighting New Orleans
patrons. Today Collins, who officiated here, adopted the same system and
used it successfully, with the result the crowd forgave him for not calling
everything the local twirler pitched a 'strike.' To date Hank O'Day appears
to be the only opponent of the idea."

1917
In an exhibition game in Dallas between the Giants and Tigers, Ty Cobb slides
into second bases and slashes Buck Herzog's leg with his spikes. Herzog
jumps on Cobb and the two fight fiercely until separated. Herzog challenges
Cobb to a fight and says he'll be in Cobb's room at 10 p.m. and both
will be accompanied by one teammate. Herzog and Heinie Zimmerman show up,
but Cobb has 8 teammates on hand. Herzog knocks the Tiger star down with
his first punch but Cobb gets up and hammers the New Yorker until the two
are finally separated. Cobb refuses to play the remaining games with the
Giants, and at the end of the week the New York players send him a postcard:
"It's safe to rejoin your club; we've left."

1922
Christy Mathewson is elected as Bucknell's "B" Club first president.

1923
The Red Sox announce that they are filing a $15,000 suit against the
Tigers because P Carl Holling, acquired in a trade last October, has not
reported. Holling never does pitch.

1938
The Cardinals beat Columbus (AA), 10-4, despite three errors by 3B Sammy
Baugh. Slingin' Sammy has been fielding well up till today. Yesterday the
Cards lost 1-0 in 13 innings to their Rochester farm club, managing just
2 hits off 4 pitchers. Ted Wilks was the winner.

1941
Giants manager Bill Terry says he turned down a 3-team deal, which would
have sent Dodgers 2B Pete Coscaret and Cubs holdout Hank Lieber to the
Giants. Chicago would get Giant C-OF Harry Danning, while Brooklyn would
get 2B Billy Herman from the Cubs. Brooklyn will still get Herman, but not
till May 6.

1944
Branch Rickey suggests pooling of surplus players if ML 4F players are
drafted for military service. Nothing comes of the suggestion.

1946
A holdout from the Browns, SS Vern Stephens signs a 5-year deal with the
Pasquel brothers to play in Mexico. The Giants dismiss Roy Zimmerman, George
Hausmann and P Sal Maglie for dickering with the Pasquels, and the trio
depart for Mexico. One day later Mickey Owen of the Dodgers signs to manage
the Mexican club in Torreon. Stephens will play a couple of games in Mexico,
then jump back. Owen announces he will return and then changes his mind again.

1948
The PCL integrates as San Diego's John Ritchey pinch hits against Los
Angeles. Ritchey, the AL (Negro League) batting champ last year, will homer
tomorrow in a starting role and hit .323 in 103 games.

1954
The Braves dispose of the Savannah Indians (Sally League) 27-0. Starter Lew
Burdette pitches 6 innings and has 3 hits including a homer. On April 4,
Savannah will take a 4-run lead against the Yankees into the 9th and with
2 outs and the bases empty the Bombers explode to win, 11-9.

1955
The Yanks sell P Ewell Blackwell and Tom Gorman, plus reserve IF Dick
Kryhoski, to the Kansas City Athletics, now in the AL, for $50,000.

1956
The Cubs send former MVP slugger Hank Sauer to the Cardinals for OF Pete
Whisenant and cash.

1965
The Yankees sell P Stan Williams to the Indians.

1966
Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale's refusal to report to spring training ends
when the hurlers agree to the Dodgers offer of $235,000, signing for $130,000
and $105,000 respectively. The LA starters joint holdout lasts for 32 days
and paves the way for other players to be more aggressive when negotiating
with owners.

1967
The Dodgers Willie Davis suffers a broken bone in his ankle that will hamper
his performance throughout the season.

1972
Marvin Miller, executive director of the Players' Association, completes
his canvass of players on the strike issue:  663 vote in favor of a strike,
10 against, and there are 2 abstentions.

1978
The Red Sox obtain Dennis Eckersley and catcher Fred Kendall from the Indians
for pitchers Rick Wise and Mike Paxton along with designated hitter Ted
Cox and catcher Bo Diaz. The 'Eck' will win 20 games for Boston next season.

1979
Fifty of 52 ML umpires meet in Chicago and reject new offers from the AL
and NL.

1981
The Twins trade OF Ken Landreaux to the Dodgers for OF-3B Mickey Hatcher,
minor-leaguer Kelly Snider and P Matt Reeves.

The Phillies sell OF Greg Luzinski to the White Sox, who will use him as
a full-time DH.

1982
The Giants trade pitchers Vida Blue and Bob Tufts to the Royals for pitchers
Renie Martin, Craig Chamberlain and Atlee Hammaker.

The Dodgers trade OF Rudy Law to the White Sox for minor leaguers Cecil
Espy and Bert Geiger.

The Yankees trade P Andy McGaffigan and OF Ted Wilborn to the San Francisco
Giants for P Doyle Alexander. Alexander was in a salary dispute with the
Giants and had not reported to training camp. It is the pitcher's 2nd tour
of duty with the Yanks; he'll go 1-7 this year and 0-2 next year before
being released on May 16.

1984
The Yankees trade new author and veteran 3B Graig Nettles to the Padres for
rookie P Dennis Rasmussen and prospect Darin Cloniger. Nettles' controversial
book Balls, in which he criticizes Steinbrenner, will not be officially
published until April 30th, but the bound books available now make his days
in pinstripes numbered.

1986
Danny Cox, who was 18-9 for the NL champion Cardinals last season, injures
his ankle jumping off a sea wall while fishing and will be placed on the
disabled list. He'll be on the DL till April 29th.

1987
The Kansas City Royals swap C Jim Sundberg to the Cubs for OF Thad Bosley
and P Dave Gumpert.

1988
Reds OF Eddie Milner is suspended for the 1988 season by Commissioner
Ueberroth after suffering a relapse of his cocaine problem. The suspension
will be lifted June 19 after Milner completes a drug rehab program.

1991
A sold-out Joe Robbie Stadium plays host to the Yankees and the Orioles
exhibition game which draws 67,654 fans, a spring training attendance
record. The two-day series between the AL East rivals is part of South
Florida's efforts to be awarded a National League expansion team.

1992
The White Sox trade Sammy Sosa and pitcher Ken Patterson to the cross-town
rival Cubs for slugger George Bell. Sosa will pass Ernie Banks as the
franchise's all-time homerun leader.

1993
Peanuts character Charlie Brown hits a game-winning homerun, his first round
tripper in 43 years. Almost ten percent of the nearly 18,000 Peanuts strips
created by Charles Schulz focused on baseball.

The Padres trade OF Darrin Jackson to the Blue Jays in exchange for
outfielders Derek Bell and Stoney Briggs.

1994
The Mets trade P Anthony Young to the Cubs in exchange for SS Jose Vizcaino.

1995
In a conference call vote, the owners vote 26-2 to authorize the use of
replacement players for the season. Initially George Steinbrenner votes
against it but changes his mind to show solidarity with Bud Selig. Toronto
and Baltimore vote against it.

1998
Reds trade projected Opening Day P Dave Burba to the Indians in exchange
for 1B Sean Casey. Burba will win 10 games by the All-Star break.

1999
The Players Association releases the results of a survey rating major
league umpires in both leagues. Tim McClelland (AL) and Jerry Crawford (NL)
receive the highest grades, while Ken Kaiser (AL) and Charlie Williams (NL)
receive the lowest.

Mariners SS Alex Rodriguez is injured in spring training while doing an
agility exercise which involves jumping over boxes. He'll undergo surgery
on April 8 that will keep him out of action for 6 weeks.

The Blue Jays obtain 3B Dave Hollins from the Angels for IF Tomas Perez.

The Yankees trade P Darren Holmes to the Diamondbacks for C Izzy Molina
and P Ben Ford.

Pitcher Jay Witasick is traded by Oakland to Kansas City for a player to
be named. The deal is completed June 9 when the A's receive P Scott Chiasson.

2000
The Mets defeat the Cubs in the Tokyo Dome, 5-1, in 11 innings on Benny
Agbayani's pinch hit grand slam. Rey Ordonez commits an error in the game,
ending his major league record streak of 101 consecutive errorless games
at SS. With a swipe of 2B, Rickey Henderson joins Ted Williams as the only
players to steal a base in each of 4 decades.

The Rockies sign AL stolen base champ Brian Hunter to a contract.

2001
Kids will be invited from all over the nation to play baseball on the
White House lawn as President George W. Bush, former owner of the Rangers,
announces to a group of Hall of Famers in the East Room he has ordered a
junior-size baseball field to be built outside the Oval Office.

Choosing to end his career as a member of a World Champion team, 36-year-old
Dwight Gooden announces his retirement from baseball. 'Doc', who compiles
a 194-112 record in 16 seasons playing for the Mets, Yankees, Indians,
Astros and Devil Rays, will remain on the Bronx Bombers' payroll and will
have a position within the organization.

Tigers C Mitch Meluskey is out for the season after undergoing surgery on
his right shoulder.

The Marlins swap P Manny Aybar to the Cubs for P Oswaldo Mairena.

The Mets top prospect, Brian Cole, 22, is killed when the car he is driving
home to Mississippi from spring training flips over. Cole, who stole 69
bases last year, was voted the organization's player of the year in 2000.

2003
Major League baseball returns to Brooklyn for a day as the Mets appear at
KeySpan Park, the Coney Island home of the short-season single A Cyclones,
for the team's final preseason workout. Although the practice session is
rained out, fans enjoy meeting the players and collecting autographs, and
profits made from beverage and other sales will still be donated to area
charities serving children.

The Texas Rangers, powered by 3 HRs, defeat the World Champion Anaheim
Angels, 6-3, to open the 2003 season. Michael Young's 3-run blast in the
4th inning is the big blow, as Ismael Valdes picks up the win.

2004
The Yankees and Devil Rays open the 2004 season in Japan, with Tampa Bay
pounding out an 8-3 victory behind the pitching of Victor Zambrano and the
hitting of Tino Martinez. Martinez strokes 3 hits, including the 300th HR
of his career.

The Dodgers get OF Jason Grabowski from the A's in exchange for cash
considerations.

The Cardinals and Padres exchange OFs, with Kerry Robinson going to SD and
Brian Hunter going to St. Louis.

2005
The Pirates get C David Ross from the Dodgers for cash.

The Rockies obtain P Byung-Hyun Kim from the Red Sox in exchange for P
Chris Narveson, C Charles Johnson and cash.

2006
As a result of the recently released book detailing Barry Bonds' allegedly
using performance-enhancing drugs, Bud Selig appoints George Mitchell to head
an investigation into the use of steroids in baseball. The former Senate
Majority Leader will have the authority to expand the probe, which will be
made public, into events prior to the Fall of 2002, when such substances
were banned by major league baseball.

Effa Manley is one of among 17 significant figures in Negro Leagues history
to be selected by a special committee for induction into the Baseball Hall
of Fame. The former Newark Eagles executive, known as the Boss, will become
the first woman to be enshrined in Cooperstown.

The Royals trade utilityman Joe McEwing to the Astros for a player to
be named.

