Mar 31

1909
The National Commission rules that players who jump contracts will be
suspended for 5 years. Players joining outlaw organizations will be suspended
for 3 years as punishment for going outside organized baseball.

1945
Headline:  DiMaggio to the Phillies. Vince is sent by the Pirates in exchange
for P Al Gerhauser, who lost 35 games in 2 seasons. DiMaggio will drive in
84 runs while again leading the NL in strikeouts.

1948
At Ebbets Field No. 2, the Dodgers play their first exhibition game
at Dodgertown in Vero Beach, which will remain the team's home for 61
years. Amidst much fanfare, including Governor Millard Caldwell throwing
the ceremonial first pitch, Jackie Robinson homers in the first inning as
Brooklyn beats its top farm club, the Montreal Royals, 5-4.

1951
Chuck Connors ties a Los Angeles (PCL) record when he hits 3 homers and
drives in 7 runs in a 12-1 win over San Francisco.

1958
The Indians trade OF Gene Woodling, the versatile Dick Williams and P Bud
Daley to the Orioles for OF Larry Doby and LHP Don Ferrarese. For Doby,
Williams and Woodling, it is their 2nd tour of duty with their new team.

Milwaukee purchases P Dick Littlefield from the Cubs. The well-traveled
pitcher will be wearing his 10th and last ML uniform, as he goes 0-1 for
the Braves.

1959
In a trade that helps neither team, Milwaukee swaps P Gene Conley, IF
Joe Koppe and IF Harry Hanebrink to the Phillies for C Stan Lopata, SS
Ted Kazanski and Johnny O'Brien. Conley will go 12-7 before going on the
disabled list from August 20th to the close of the season.

1961
A Pacific Coast League proposal to use a designated batter for the pitcher
is voted down 8-1 by the Professional Baseball Rules Committee. (The first
use of the DH will occur in the American League in 1973.) The committee
also rules that every club must designate a manager within 30 minutes of
game time, a move prompted by the Cubs' college of coaches.

The Milwaukee Braves send infielders Andre Rodgers and Daryl Robertson to
the Cubs for pitchers Moe Drabowsky and Seth Morehead.

1964
The Senators send young prospect Lou Piniella to the Orioles for Buster
Narum and cash. Piniella will play briefly for the O's before going to the
minors until resurfacing with the Indians in 1968. The Seattle Pilots will
draft him in 1969 and trade him to Kansas City where Sweet Lou, with his
5th team, finally wins Rookie of the Year honors.

1968
The American League's new franchise in Seattle chooses Pilots as its nickname.

1971
The Mets trade 1969 hero OF Ron Swoboda and infielder Rich Hacker to Montreal
for OF Don Hahn. Swoboda will go to the Yankees in June for OF Ron Woods.

1980
The Expos trade 1B-OF Rusty Staub to the Rangers for IF Chris Smith and OF
LaRue Washington.

1982
The Expos trade 3B-OF Larry Parrish and minor league 1B Dave Hostetler to
the Rangers for veteran OF-1B Al Oliver. Hostetler will play for the Rangers
at 1B as well as DH, where he becomes the first DH with the initials DH.

1984
On a televised episode of ABC's Sports Beat, Howard Cossell informs
interviewee Roger Maris of the Yankees' plan to retire the slugger's number
9 at the Old Timers game ceremonies in July. The former Bronx Bomber's
reaction is at first disbelief, followed by a genuine pleasure for being
recognized for his achievements during his seven years with the team.

1986
The Reds trade Wayne Krenchicki to the Expos for a pair of minor leaguers -
Norm Charlton and Tim Barker.

1993
Bill White, the first black to serve as a league president, resigns from
his National League post. The former Cardinal first baseman will remain at
the job until March of 1994.

The Cardinals trade P Mark Clark and SS Juan Andujar to the Indians in
exchange for OF Mark Whiten. Whiten will have his best season for the Cards
in '93.

1994
The Mets trade hard-luck right hander Anthony Young to the Cubs for shortstop
Jose Vizcaino. A-Yo holds the major league record for the most consecutive
losses by a pitcher.

The White Sox assign NBA superstar Michael Jordan to the Birmingham Barons
of the Class AA Southern League.

The Mets continue dealing by swapping former number one selections with the
Tigers. The Mets send pitcher Alan Zinter to Detroit for 1B Rico Brogna. Rico
will start at Norfolk but after the Mets bring him up he will hit .351 in
39 games.

1995
A crowd of 47,536 fans flock to the first baseball game ever played at Coors
Field. Due to the strike, the exhibition game is played with replacement
players with the Rockies beating the Yankees, 4-1

U.S. District Judge Sonia Sotomayor issues a preliminary injunction requiring
baseball owners to comply with the expired collective bargaining agreement. In
5 days, the 2nd Court of Appeals will deny the owners' request to stay
Sotomayor's decision.

1996
Hours before Opening Day, the Mets add a 5th starter to replace three
of their ailing young arms on the DL. New York sends the expendable Ryan
Thompson and pitcher Reid Cornelius to the Indians for Mark Clark. Clark
was 20-10 over the past two seasons.

In the earliest Opening Day ever, the Mariners sail past the White Sox in
12 innings, 3-2, in Seattle. Randy Johnson strikes out 14 Sox in 7 innings,
but served up a 2-run homer to Frank Thomas. Five M's pitchers strike out 21
batters, including Ron Karkovice five times, while the Sox use 7 pitchers in
the loss. The AL unveiled its new colorful red polo shirts for the umpires,
part of the "What a Game" campaign to lure fans back to the parks. The
last sartorial change was in the 1970s when AL umps wore red blazers for
several years. AL umps will wear red and blue polo shirts for the season;
NL umps will stick with traditional blue.

1998
In the longest scoreless opener in National League history pinch-hitter
Alberto Castillo's single with two outs and the bases loaded gives the Mets
a 1-0, 14-inning victory over the Phillies. Chuck Schilling shuts out the
Mets for the first 8 innings on only 2 hits, while fanning 9. The longest
Opening Day game in major league history occurred in 1926 when the Senators
blanked the Philadelphia A's in 15 innings, 1-0.

In front of a sellout crowd of 47,484 at Bank One Ballpark, the Arizona
Diamondbacks lose to the Rockies, 9-2, in the Diamondbacks' first game
ever. The seven run difference matches the '62 Mets and the '77 Mariners
for the most-lopsided loss by an expansion team in their first game. P Andy
Benes is tagged with the loss, and rookies Travis Lee, who gets 3 hits,
and Karim Garcia hit HRs. Vinny Castilla drives in 5 runs for Colorado.

With a rare on-the-field appearance, Hank Aaron helps to mark Milwaukee's
historic return to the Senior Circuit as the Brewers play their inaugural
game as a National League team losing to the Braves at Turner Field, 2-1.
Bob Wickman takes the historic loss in relief, as the Braves plate the winning
marker with 2 outs in the bottom of the 9th inning. Milwaukee is the first
team since the inception of the American League in 1901 to switch leagues.

The Tampa Bay Devil Rays lose to the Tigers, 11-6, in their first game
ever. Wilson Alvarez takes the loss for Tampa while 3B Wade Boggs slugs
the 1st HR in team history and drives in 3 runs.

SS Pokey Reese, starting in place of Barry Larkin who is on the DL, commits
4 errors on his 1st 3 chances in the field as the Reds lose their opener,
10-2, to the Padres.

Marlins' C Charles Johnson, who had not committed an error in a record 172
consecutive regular season games, is charged with one on a wild throw in
the 1st inning of Florida's opening day 11-6 victory over the Cubs. Johnson
hits a 3-run HR in Florida's 6-run 1st inning to atone for his miscue. The
defending champs will lose their next 10 games.

Cardinals' rookie P Braden Looper makes an auspicious major league debut
in St. Louis' 6-0 win over the Dodgers. Looper enters the game in the 9th
inning and strikes out all 3 batters he faces - Todd Zeile, Raul Mondesi
and Paul Konerko. The Dodgers are held to 3 hits by 4 St. Louis pitchers.

The Giants win their opener against the Astros, 9-4, as Jeff Kent gets 5
hits, including a double and HR, and drives home 4. Houston 2B Craig Biggio,
who last year became only the 3rd player in major league history to go an
entire season without grounding into a double play, hits into a twin-killing
in his 2nd time up this year.

1999
Commissioner Bud Selig confirms that discussions are underway which could
lead to advertising space being sold on the sleeves of players uniforms.

The Cubs obtain P Dan Serafini from the Twins in exchange for cash
considerations.

2001
After 31 years in Three River Stadium, the Pirates move into their new
$262 million home at PNC Park, losing to the Mets, 4-3, in an exhibition
game. The 38,000 seat stadium is nestled at the confluence of the Allegheny,
Monongahela and Ohio rivers with a spectacular view of the city.

2003
On Opening Day for most of the clubs, MLB.com, the web site of major league
baseball, has more than 10 million hits setting a new record. The previous
mark was set last season on the final day of online voting for All-Star
game starters when 3.6 million visitors were attracted to the site.

Substituting for his son, a former lefty first baseman at Yale, George
Bush, throws the Great American Ball Park's ceremonial first pitch as the
Reds make their debut in their new ballpark. The former president and the
sell-out crowd of 42,263 flag-waving fans enjoy the patriotic pre-game
ceremonies and then watch the Pirates rout Cincinnati, 10-1. The Pirates
stroke 3 HRs in a 6-run 2nd inning. Reggie Sanders, Kenny Lofton and Jason
Kendall homer in the frame for Pittsburgh. Ken Griffey Jr's first inning
double is the first hit in the new ballpark.

At Shea Stadium, the Mets Opening Day lineup includes the first regular
starting double play combination in major league history featuring natives
from Puerto Rico. Second baseman Roberto Alomar and shortstop Rey Sanchez
combine to make two twin killings as the Cubs drub New York, 15-2. The Cubs
pound out 16 hits. This is the most lopsided opening day win since 1951. Corey
Patterson has 4 hits, a pair of HRs and 7 RBIs to lead the way for Chicago.

The Royals defeat the White Sox, 3-0, as Runelvys Hernandez (6 IP) combines
with 2 relievers on the 3-hit shutout. KC manager Tony Pena had flipped a
coin to see whether Hernandez or Jeremy Affeldt would receive the honor of
making the opening day start.

The Devil Rays score 5 runs in the bottom half of the 9th inning to defeat
the Red Sox, 6-4. Carl Crawford's 2-out, 3-run blast gives manager Lou
Piniella a win in his debut as Tampa Bay's manager.

2004
With a 12-1 defeat of the Devil Rays in Tokyo, Kevin Brown becomes the
second pitcher in history to have defeated all of the thirty major league
teams. The 39-year-old right-hander joins Al Leiter who accomplished the
feat last season pitching for the Mets.

The Blue Jays and Dodgers trade Jasons with the Blue Jays sending OF Jason
Werth to the Dodgers for P Jason Frasor.

The Giants obtain pitchers Wayne Franklin and Leo Estrella from the Brewers
for pitchers Carlo Vallanueva and Glenn Woolard.

The Astros traded 15-game winner Jeriome Robertson to the Indians for minor
league OF Luke Scott and the rights for the Indians to keep minor league OF
Willy Taveras. Taveras was taken in the Rule 5 draft and, since he isn't
going to the team, the Indians would have had to offer him back to the
Astros for $25,000. But, as part of the deal, the Indians get to keep him
and send him to the minors, without the Astros taking him back.

2005
The Orioles and MLB agree on a deal which will allow Nationals games
to be televised. A joint venture backed by MLB will allow fans in the
Baltimore-Washington area to enjoy telecasts of both franchises and will
ensure the Orioles fans in the nation's capitol will still have an opportunity
to watch their 'Birds'.

The Devil Rays acquire IF Nick Green from the Braves for P Jorge Sosa.

2006
The ball that Babe Ruth hit for his last HR at Yankee Stadium is sold
for $86,250 at auction. The ball was hit in an exhibition game off Walter
Johnson on August 23, 1942.

2007
In the MLB's inaugural Civil Rights game, the Cardinals beat the Indians
at AutoZone Park in Memphis, 5-1. The exhibition game, planned to be an
annual event, is designed to celebrate and honor baseball's historical role
in the nation's civil rights movement.

2008
On Opening Day, the Reds pay tribute to Joe Nuxhall by wearing the number 41
on their uniforms. The team's beloved broadcaster, who spent over 60 years
with the organization, including his major debut as a 15-year-old hurler,
died during the off-season at the age of 79.

Outside of Wrigley Field, the Cubs unveil a statue of Ernie Banks done by
Lou Cella. The typographical error on the base of the statue, "Lets play
two", is quickly corrected when the sculptor comes down to the ballpark
two days later and carves the needed apostrophe.

2009
The Tigers unexpectedly release Gary Sheffield despite having $14 million left
on the $28 million two-year contract extension given to the DH/outfielder
after being acquired from the Yankees in a trade for prospects. The
40-year-old nine-time All-Star needs to hit one more dinger to become the
25th major league player to hit 500 career homeruns.

2010
Denard Span hits a hard line drive foul into the stands that strikes his
mother in the first inning of an exhibition game in Tampa. The Twins'
stunned leadoff batter runs into the crowded stands and stays with his mom
while she is treated by paramedics until she returns to her seat, slightly
shaken but intact.

2013
The Astros beat the Rangers in their American League debut, an 8-3 victory
in a nationally televised game played at Minute Maid Park. After 51 years of
playing in the National League, Houston agreed to move from the NL Central to
the AL West to give each league 15 teams with an equal number teams in each
division, as a condition of the approval of the sale of the team to Jim Crane.

Shintaro Fujinami, a first-round draft selection last Fall, sets a record
for rookies drafted out of high school when he makes his first professional
start pitching for the Hanshin Tigers just three games into the season. The
18-year-old Japanese right-hander, who allows two runs in six innings
and will take the loss in the Tokyo Yakult Swallows' 2-0 victory at Jingu
Stadium, makes his mound debut a game sooner than Daisuke Matsuzaka (1999)
and Hideaki Wakui (2005).

2018
Red Sox shortstop Xander Bogaerts, who goes 3 for 4 in the team's 3-2 victory
over the Rays at Tropicana Field, becomes the first American Leaguer to
have multiple extra-base hits in the first three games of the season. In
2015, Dodgers first baseman Adrian Gonzalez also accomplished the feat,
collecting at least two hits in each of LA's first three contests when
he compiled ten hits his first 14 at-bats of the season.

