Jun 15

1901
After two losses to the Giants, Chicago gets back on track, 9-2, behind the
10 strikeout twirling of Rube Waddell. The Colts trample Christy Mathewson
for 9 runs and 13 hits, and hand the phenom his 4th loss in a row.

At Boston, Gettysburg College grad George Winter wins for the Somersets,
12-4 over the Tigers. The rookie will win his next 6 in a row.

1902
Corsicana (Texas League) shows no mercy in beating Texarkana, 51-3. Due to
Sunday laws forbidding baseball, the game is shifted to a smaller park in
Ennis, where the RF fence is only about 210'. The team's 53 hits include 21
HRs, mostly over the short RF fence. Nig Clarke, later to play in the ML,
is perfect going 8 for 8 - all homeruns, collecting 16 RBIs and 32 total
bases, all organized baseball records. Clarke is a switch-hitter but bats
lefty against a righty pitcher, who is not one of the regular players but
the son of part-owner C. B. DeWitt. Allegedly, at the urging of the crowd,
the Texarkana pitchers lay it in for Nig in his last 3 at-bats. He collects
$185 from the appreciative fans. Two others are 8 for 8, including 2B William
Alexander who has 3 homeruns and a double. Manager Michael O'Conner is 7
for 8 with 3 HRs. Corsicana still strands 15 runners while scoring in every
inning. Despite leading 17-1 after 3 innings, Corsicana steals 5 bases and
"as was the custom of the day, took their last at-bats even though they
were the home team." They score 8 more times in the final inning. The game
is detailed in The Man Who Stole First Base by Eric Nadel & Craig R. Wright.

In Canton, Ohio, Cleveland loses to Boston, 5-2, before a crowd of 6,000
ringing the outfield. Balls hit into the crowd are doubles, and 10 are
collected today. Buck Freeman has a pair.

1903
Following two rainouts, the Pirates notch another shut out when Sam Leever
beats Chicago, 3-0, on his 3rd straight shutout. Leever allows just one hit,
garnered by Chicago hurler Jack Menefee.

1904
Fred Glade of the St. Louis Browns strikes out 15 batters to set a new AL
and ML record. Glade's effort results in a 6-1 win over the Highlanders,
but he'll only hold the ML record until October 3 when it'll be broken by
Christy Mathewson. There is some contention, most notably by Browns' secretary
Sidney Mercer, that Glade's number is 16, but the boxscore says otherwise.

1906
The Cubs beat the host Phillies, 1-0. In writing up the game tomorrow the
Tribune will call the team the Cubs (as noted by Irv Stein) a first for
the paper. The paper had been referring to the team as the Spuds, a name
pinned on them in 1898 because of the number of young players: the ball
park was called the "potato patch" (other nicknames for the Cubs were Colts,
Orphans and Recruits).

1907
Making his first pro start, Maury Kent of Marshalltown (Iowa State) hurls
a no-hitter, but loses to Keokuk, 2-1.

1910
Christy Mathewson outpitches Lefty Leifield to easily turn back the Pirates,
5-1. The only Pirate score comes on a homer by Ham Hyatt, his first in
the majors.

Trying to dig themselves out of last place, the Browns pick up Bob Spade
on waivers from the Reds. They win today, beating Washington, 5-4, to up
their record to 10-35, 20 games behind New York and Philadelphia.

It is a day of lengthy games as the Reds and Phils play to a 16-inning
3-3 tie.

Brooklyn beats Chicago, 3-2, in 14 innings, handing rookie King Cole his
first loss after 8 straight wins (he was also 1-0 in 1909). Cole will finish
the season at 20-4. Winning pitcher Cy Barger has 4 hits including an RBI
double in the 14th.

The White Sox down the first place A's, 4-3, in 14 innings when winning
pitcher Ed Walsh drives in a run with a single.

1915
In the Tigers' 2-1 win over the A's, Cobb leads an apparent successful
triple steal, but Young pops a bunt in the air and Cobb is doubled off 3B.

On Bunker Hill Day in Boston, the Browns manage just 4 hits and one run
off Babe Ruth in six innings. Ruth strikes out 10 before collapsing in the
7th. Carl Mays relieves with one out and the Red Sox emerge with an 11-10
win, Ruth the victor. The Sox are now tied for 2nd with the Tigers.

The Giants top the Reds, 8-0.

1916
Any more brothers? After losing yesterday in Detroit to Harry Coveleski,
the Yankees succumb today, 3-2, to Cleveland's Stan Coveleski. The Yankees
rally with two outs in the 9th on Peckinpaugh's triple and a single by
Hartzell to tie. With a man on 2nd base and first base open in the 10th,
Bob Shawkey throws two wide ones to Tris Speaker, then tries to slip a fast
ball over the plate. Speaker hits it for the game-winning single.

1917
Los Angeles (PCL) pitcher Jack Ryan hits two grand slams in a 12-4 victory
over Portland.

1918
Cubs base runner Charlie Deal races home from 3rd with the go-ahead run
when Dodger pitcher Jack Coombs drops the ball while winding up. The balls
rolls towards 2B and Deal scores. The Cubs go on to win, 6-1.

Batting cleanup and playing left field, Babe Ruth clubs a three-run homer
in the 7th, his 8th roundtripper of the year. He drives home another run
in the 9th to lead the visiting Red Sox to an 8-4 win over the Browns.

1919
A rain check dispute arises. Cincinnati rain checks read "not to be used
after 4 and a half innings have been completed." But the game is called with
the Reds at-bat with one out in the bottom of the 5th and the game tied
1-1. The Reds honor the rain checks, but the Braves demand their share of
the gate ($2,600), as a legal game has been played, based on the wording of
the rain check. In a compromise, the Braves accept $1,300, and the other
6 clubs agree to share the cost. In the future all rain checks will read
"not good after five innings."

1920
The Indians jump on Carl Mays in the 3rd inning after the submariner walks
3 in succession. The Tribe scores 5 times enroute to a 10-2 victory, the
3rd in 4 games with the Yankees. New York is now 2 games behind Cleveland.

Possum Whited swipes home with the winning run in the 10th inning as the
Pirates nip the Phillies, 7-6. Possum's steal is on the front end of a
double steal with Grimm.

1922
The Browns beat the Senators, 3-2, on Marty McManus' bounce homerun.

1923
In Washington, Bibb Falk of the White Sox pinch hits a 3 run HR off Walter
Johnson, in relief, in the 7th. But Washington holds on for an 8-6 win with
the victory credited to Cy Warmoth.

1924
Washington brings back funnyman Al Schacht, not as a player, but as a
coach. Washington will promptly go on a winning streak, though they lose
today to Chicago, 6-4.

Yankee rookie Earle Combs breaks his leg and will be out most of the year.

1925
In Shibe Park, with the Indians leading the first-place A's, 15-3, after 7
innings, many fans (and starting pitcher Stan Baumgartner) leave and miss the
greatest rally of the century. The A's score a run in the 7th and then plate
a club-record 13 in the 8th for a 17-15 win and making up a 12-run deficit,
tying a record set in 1911. Led by Al Simmons with a single and 3-run homer,
the A's collect 9 hits and 4 walks in the rampage. The outburst gives Tom
Glass, the 5th pitcher for the A's, his lone ML victory (and the last game
he ever pitches) as he allows a run and 7 hits in 3 innings. Glass makes the
first out in the 8th, and is lifted for Sammy Hale when his turn comes up
again. Rube Walberg closes out the Indians in the 9th. George Uhle, one of
four Tribe pitchers in the 8th, takes the loss. The Indians tally 24 hits,
5 by Charley Jamieson and 4 each by R.H. Knode and Joe Sewell. Bill Lamar,
in the middle of a 16-game hit streak, leads the A's with 4 hits, and an
intentional walk. The latter loads the bases in the 8th for Al Simmons,
who parks one on the roof of the upper deck in left.

1926
After sending OF Bing Miller to St. Louis for OF Baby Doll Jacobson, the
A's trade P Slim Harriss, P Freddie Heimach and Jacobson to the Red Sox for
OF Tom Jenkins and P Howard Ehmke, 32. Ehmke, 3-10 at Boston, will be 12-4
for the rest of the year at Philadelphia.

Brooklyn buys Sammy Bohne from the Reds.

1927
At Philadelphia, Ted Lyons overcomes a 1st inning grand slam by Al Simmons
to beat the A's, 6-4. The Chicago ace wins his 12th, tops in the AL, and
his 9th straight. Lyons hits a 2-run triple in the 8th to break a 4-4 tie.

At New York, St. Louis lefty Tom Zachary lasts just an inning in losing to
New York, 8-1. Zachary serves up Ruth's 22nd homer, with Combs on, and Gehrig
follows with his 15th. Waite Hoyt allows a solo homer to Schulte in winning.

1928
The Giants send four players to the Braves for pitcher Joe Genewich (3-7),
Boston's best pitcher last year. He'll go 11-4 for New York, but win just 5
games in 2 seasons after that. Receiving Boston tickets are rookie pitcher
Ben Cantwell, rookie catcher Al Spohrer, and pitchers Bill Clarkson and
Virgil Barnes. The two rookies will blossom in Boston, while the vets will
be gone in a year.

The Cards top Brooklyn, 5-2, in 14 innings, winning on Jim Bottomley's 3-run
blast off Bill Clark. St. Louis spitballer Clarence Mitchell, "rescued from
the junk heap a few days ago" (NY Times) pitches the first 11 innings before
giving way to Syl Johnson. With the win, the Cards wrest first place from
the Reds, 8-7 losers to the Phillies.

At Boston, the Cubs take a 5-4 win over the sliding Braves. Farrell for the
Braves, and Beck and Cuyler for the Cubs are deprived of homers by the new
ground rule regarding balls hit into the LF bleachers. The bleachers were
erected to give Rogers Hornsby more homers, but the Rajah doesn't play today
as he is saddled with a five-game suspension for yesterday's outburst. The
Cubs do get 2nd inning homers from Hack Wilson and Charley Grimm, with both
shots going into the CF bleachers.

At St. Louis, Otis Brannan has a homerun and a 3-run double to pace the
Browns to a 5-4 victory over the Yankees. Red Kress also homers for St. Louis
while Babe Ruth hits his 24th for the Bombers.

In Cleveland, Ty Cobb of the A's doubles in Lefty Grove in the 8th inning
and reaches 3B on a ground out. Then Cobb steals home just evading the tag
of C Luke Sewell. It is Cobb's last steal of home as he leads the A's to
a 12-5 win over the Indians. Grove is the winner.

1929
The Giants outlast Pittsburgh, 20-15, in 14 innings as the 2 teams combine for
52 hits. New York scores 8 runs in the last inning, with the host Bucs plating
three runs. The 8 runs in the 13th is a ML record for the inning. The game
takes 4 hours and 17 minutes to complete. For New York, Edd Roush has 5 hits,
while Fred Lindstrom, Travis Jackson and Fred Leach add 4 apiece. Jackson's
hits include 2 homers, a double and a triple, good for 7 ribbies. After
Donie Bush is ejected in the 14th, fans behind 3B toss pop bottles, and a
half inning later fans surge onto the field. Police hold the fans in check.

1930
At Cleveland's League Park, an overflow crowd is on hand for the Yankees'
trouncing of the Indians, 17-10. Ruth walks his first 4 times up, then
clouts his 25th homer of the year. Gehrig hits 2 homers to drive home 7
runs as starter Herb Pennock goes the distance in a neat 16-hitter.

Dazzy Vance can't overcome 5 Brooklyn errors and loses to the Cardinals,
9-4. Ex-Dodger Andy High adds a triple with two on and a homer with one
runner on ... all the runners reach by errors. Vance hits Taylor Douthit
twice before Douthit hits back, tripling in the 9th with a runner (via error)
on and scoring on an error for the last Cardinal run.

The Cardinals swap spit, acquiring veteran Burleigh Grimes from the Braves
for another spitballer, Wee Willie Sherdel, and young P Fred Frankhouse. The
Braves had picked up Grimes from Pittsburgh 2 months earlier. Grimes will
win 17 for the Birds in 1931, while Frankhouse will win the same in Boston
in 1934.

The Senators send its best reliever, Garland Braxton, along with Benny Tate
to the White Sox for self-promoting first sacker Art Shires. Manager Walter
Johnson will later say the trade made better pitchers of his starters,
since they were not looking to Braxton to bail them out of trouble.

1931
Cut-down day for ML rosters brings the retirement of Eddie Collins and
Harry Heilmann. Collins becomes a coach for the A's. Heilmann will return
briefly to the Reds in 1932.

1932
Dizzy Dean jumps the Cardinals after the team refuses to renegotiate his
contract. Diz claims he was underage when he signed the agreement, but the
Cardinals produce a copy of Dean's marriage certificate showing the pitcher
is 22, a year older than he says. The Commissioner declines to make Dean
a free agent and the young ace rejoins the Red Birds.

Earl Webb, in his first game in a Tiger uniform, has a pair of doubles as
Detroit beats Washington, 7-6. Gee Walker also has a pair of doubles and
steals home in the 4th. Manush has a homer and 3 singles for the Nats.

1933
The Dodgers send Lefty O'Doul, last year's batting champ, and 20-game
winner Watson Clark to the Giants for Sam Leslie. The two Brooklyn stars
have struggled during the year.

1934
Detroit's Schoolboy Rowe tops the Red Sox, 11-4, scattering 9 hits. This
will start Rowe on a 15-game win streak.

With the help of a four-run sixth inning against Ed Lagger, a recent graduate
of Northwestern, the Indians beat the A's, 12-6, in Philadelphia. For the
Tribe, Earl Averill has a three-run homer and Sam Rice notches four hits,
including a homer, his last in the majors. He last hit a homer at Shibe
Park on May 5, 1919.

1935
The Cubs rattle 18 hits off 4 Brooklyn pitchers to win, 9-4. Bill Lee
allows no earned runs in the victory. Stan Hack is 4 for 4 + getting hit
with a pitch; he had three straight hits to end yesterday, giving him 7
straight. Rookie Ken O'Dea belts a 3-run homer.

In New York the Giants defeat the Cards, 7-5. Mark Koenig's single in the
8th drives in two runs to give reliever Al Smith the winning vote. Collins
and Rothrock have homers for the Cards. Viewing the proceedings are Alabama
Pitts, late of Sing Sing, along with Johnny Evers, manager of the Albany club
(his team loses today, 12-0, to Montreal) and Warden Lewis Lawes. The three
are friends and are awaiting a favorable ruling from Judge Landis that will
allow Pitts to play pro baseball.

John Whitehead, Chisox rookie ace, bows to the Yankees, 5-3. Texas Johnnie
allows 13 hits, including 4 by Gehrig. But it is Red Rolfe's double in the
9th that brings home the final two runs. Johnny Murphy wins in relief. New
York now leads the surprising White Sox by 4 games.

The Reds send P Danny MacFayden (1-2) to the Braves for the waiver
price. Deacon Danny will go 5-13 this year in Boston, but win 45 games in
the next 3 seasons.

1937
This one hoits. The visiting Dodgers rack up 11 walks against Johnny
Vander Meer but come away with a 4-3 loss to the Reds. Vandy allows just
3 hits. Waite Hoyt is the loser.

The Boston Bees sell star OF Wally Berger to the New York Giants for $35,000
and P Frank Gabler. The former starting All Star has never recovered from
a shoulder injury he suffered in 1936.

1938
Johnny Vander Meer stuns baseball by pitching his 2nd successive no-hitter,
defeating the Dodgers and Max Butcher, 6-0. (Four days ago, the Reds'
southpaw held the Braves hitless in a 3-0 victory at Crosley Field.) Brooklyn
plays the first night game ever at Ebbets Field. In front of 38,748 fans,
including spectators Babe Ruth and several hundred fans from Vandy's home
town of Midland Park, NJ. Vandy strikes out 7 and walks 8, including three
one-out walks in the 9th. A force out at home on a grounder by Ernie Koy
and a fly ball by Leo Durocher ends the game. In a pregame event, Koy, with
a 10-yard start but running in his Reds' uniform, beats Olympic champion
Jesse Owens in the 100-yard dash.

1939
Pittsburgh picks up Elbie Fletcher, who will be their regular 1B for 5
seasons, from the Boston Bees for infielder Bill Schuster and cash. Fletcher
will also lead the NL in OBA for 3 straight years, while Schuster will play
just 2 games for Boston. The Pirates then send P Jim Tobin to the Bees for
P John Lanning.

1940
Harry Danning hits for the cycle, as the Giants beat visiting
Pittsburgh. Danning's HR is an inside-the-park hit that lands 460 feet on
the fly in front of the Giants' clubhouse. It lodges behind the Eddie Grant
memorial, and CF Vince DiMaggio cannot extricate the ball in time. Danning
is the last player this century to include an IPHR in his cycle. The Giants
win 12-1, their 8th straight win.

The Reds send recently acquired Johnny Rizzo to the Phillies for OF Morrie
Arnovich.

1941
In St. Louis, Brooklyn and the Cards split, with the Dodgers winning the
1st game 8-1, and St. Louis taking the 2nd game 3-0. Pete Reiser is hit
twice by pitches during the doubleheader.

1942
In a rare twi-light game at Ebbets Field, Claude Passeau and the Cubs stop
the Dodgers, 6-0, before a crowd of 15,159.

1944
Tex Hughson runs his record to 9-2 with a 5-1 victory over the Athletics,
as the Red Sox win their 9th in a row. Less than 800 fans are in attendance
in Boston.

In the 7th inning of a 5-5 game at Borchert Field in Milwaukee (AA), a sudden
thunderstorm erupts blowing off a 100-foot section of the grandstand roof,
blowing over part of the OF fence, and damaging cars. Thirty fans are injured,
some seriously.

1945
At Griffith Stadium, the Senators and Red Sox play 27 innings of baseball in
a doubleheader that finally concludes at 1:02 a.m. Boston wins the opener
in 14 innings, then the two teams struggle through a 13-inning tie before
time is called. This is the first post-midnight game recorded in the majors.

The Phils send Johnny Peacock to the Dodgers for outfielder-turned-pitcher
Ben Chapman, who will manage the team in the last half of the season.

1946
Commissioner Happy Chandler bans Mexican jumpers Max Lanier, Fred Martin
and Lou Klein. Chandler mentions a lifetime suspension for the players,
but his penalty is later reduced to 5 years.

1947
Just-traded Jake Jones homers in the first of two, a 7-3 Boston win over
Chicago. In the nitecap, Jones singles home 2 runs to tie the game, and
wins it with a 2-out 9th inning grand slam, 8-4. He adds a steal to his 6
ribbies in game 2. Rudy York meanwhile goes 2 for 4 in game 2, after an 0
for 4 game 1.

1948
The Detroit Tigers beat the Philadelphia Athletics, 4-1, before a crowd of
54,480 in the first night game at Briggs Stadium. (Actually, 52 years earlier
the club played a night game, but the results never made it into the books
as an official game.) The Tigers are the last AL team to install lights. Hal
Newhouser gives up just two hits and is backed by 8th inning homers by Dick
Wakefield and Pat Mullin. Former Tiger Barney McCosky, now with the A's,
crashes into the outfield wall and is taken off on a stretcher, but recovers.

Behind Johnny Sain, the Braves beat the Cubs 6-3 to take a one-game NL
lead. It is the first game to be telecast in the Boston area. The Red Sox
will follow a week later after they return from a road trip.

Cleveland picks up pitcher Sam Zoldak from the Browns for Bill Kennedy
and a magnanimous $100,000. Kennedy will win 7 for the Browns in 1948,
while Zoldak will be 9-6 for the Tribe.

1949
Rookie OF Dino Restelli joins the Pirates from San Francisco (PCL) and hits
a pair of homeruns to beat the Braves, 8-7. His first homer, with a man on,
comes off Warren Spahn and his 2nd, a 2 run shot in the 9th off Hogue, is
part of a 4-run inning. Restelli will hit 7 HRs in his first 39 at-bats and
will finish with 12, hitting .250 in 72 games. He'll be out of the league
next year.

In a swap of outfielders, Cincinnati sends Frankie Baumholtz and Hank Sauer
to the Cubs for Peanuts Lowrey and Harry Walker. The Reds will shortly send
both on to St. Louis, Lowrey for cash and Walker swapped a 2nd time for
Ron Northey. Baumholtz and Sauer will flourish in Wrigley's friendly confines.

Ed Sauer, brother of Hank, is also swapped today. First the Pirates purchase
the catcher from the Cardinals, then trade him to the Braves for C Phil
Masi and cash.

1950
In a rain-delayed game at Comiskey, Billy Pierce twirls a masterful one-hitter
to beat the Yankees, 5-0. Billy Johnson's single in the 5th and a walk to
Jerry Coleman are the only NY base runners.

The Yankees, frustrated in late April in their aborted trade for Ostrowski
with the Browns, finally get the pitcher, along with pitchers Tom Ferrick
and Sid Schacht, and 3B Leo Thomas. New York sends infielder Snuffy
Stirnweiss, OF Jim Delsing, pitchers Duane Pillette and Don Johnson, and
$50,000. Both Ferrick and Ostrowski will prove their worth in the 1950
pennant drive. Tomorrow, the Yanks beat the Browns, 7-5, with Ferrick and
Ostrowski starring in relief.

The Tigers roll over the A's, 7-3, for their 8th win in 9 meetings with the
Mackmen. Hoot Evers has his 19-game hit streak stopped but George Kell runs
his to 15 straight. The winner is Freddie Hutchinson, while Bobby Shantz
is the loser. Shantz will not lose again to Detroit until June 13, 1958,
a string of 12 straight wins.

1951
The Cubs trade Andy Pfako along with Johnny Schmitz, Wayne Terwilliger
and Rube Walker to the Dodgers for Bruce Edwards, Joe Hatten, Eddie Miksis
and Gene Hermanski. The deal, which prevents the coveted 'Handy Andy' from
going to the rival Giants, is the first of many to be made by Buzz Bavasi,
Brooklyn's new general manager.

Happy Chandler says that his resignation will become effective on July 15th.

Just before game time at Wrigley Field, the Cubs and the first-place Dodgers
make another trade this one 4 for 4 ... OF Andy Pafko, P Johnny Schmitz,
C Rube Walker and IF Wayne Terwilliger go to Brooklyn for C Bruce Edwards,
OF Gene Hermanski, IF Eddie Miksis and P Joe Hatten. To the surprise of
fans, the 8 appear in their new uniforms. The Cubs get the best today as
Bruce Edward knocks in 4 runs, three on a homer, off Carl Erskine, and
Miksis fields well. Pafko hits his 13th homer in a losing cause and will
incur an injury in this series that will sideline him for three weeks in
July. But the New York Post expresses the sentiment of most, calling it
"the most barefaced swindle in years."

Pittsburgh sends Cliff "no hit" Chambers and OF Wally Westlake to the Cards
for C Joe Garagiola, P Howie Pollet, P Ted Wilks, OF Bill Howerton and 2B
Dick Cole.

The Yanks swap pitchers, sending Tommy Byrne to the Browns for Stubby
Overmire. New York adds $25,000 to the deal. The Yanks also deal three RH
pitchers - Bob Porterfield, Tom Ferrick and Fred Sanford - to the Senators
for needed lefty Bob Kuzava. Porterfield will blossom into the Nats' ace
over the next five years, but Kuzava will save the final World Series games
in 1951 and 1952.

1952
The Cardinals, down 11-0 after 3 innings, rally to defeat the Giants,
14-12. All the Redbird scores come in the last 4 innings (7+3+2+2) as Solly
Hemus ties the game with an 8th-inning HR and adds another in the 9th. The
Giants end the game with the bases loaded. The comeback is a NL record
... the AL record was set on June 18, 1911. The Giants allow no rallies in
game two and win 3-0 behind Dave Koslo. Wes Westrum's three-run homer is
the game's scoring.

Before 69,468 at Municipal Stadium, New York scores 6 runs in the 2nd inning
off Bob Lemon enroute to an 8-2 win. Mantle's 3-run homer is the big blow
in the inning.

In 100 degree weather in St. Louis, the Browns take 5 hours 38 minutes to
sweep a pair from the A's, 6-3 and 7-6 in 11 innings. Ned Garver, having
lost to the A's several weeks ago, resumes his winning ways with his 11th
win in 12 decisions over the Quakers. In the nitecap, the A's prolong it
with a hidden ball trick in the 6th. After a conference on the mound and
with runners on 1B and 3B, third baseman Billy Hitchcock returns to his
position and tags out lead runner Darryl Johnson.

1953
The Tigers trade pitchers Art Houtteman and Bill Wight, C Joe Ginsberg,
and infielder Owen Friend to Cleveland for 3B Ray Boone and pitchers Steve
Gromek, Al Aber and Dick Weik. Weik developed a sore arm in spring training
and has not yet made an appearance.

The Braves drop to second place behind the idle Dodgers when reliever Lew
Burdette plunks Danny O'Connell to force in the winning run. The Pirates win
4-3 in the 10th inning, as Cal Abrams tallies the winner. Bob Friend goes
all the way for his first win in his last 8 decisions, beating Earl Wilson.

The Giants sell catcher Sal Yvars to the Cards for $30,000, then beat the
Redbirds, 3-2. Some of the Giants don't know Yvars is gone till they see
him in a Redbirds uniform. Jim Hearn is the winner for New York, giving up
6 hits including a Solly Hemus homer.

1954
The Giants take over undisputed possession of first place for the first and
last time when Hank Thompson hits a 3-run HR with 2 out in the 9th to beat
the Redlegs, 5-3. Brooklyn drops the 2nd.

With exactly half the season remaining, former Cardinals CF Terry Moore
replaces Phillies manager Steve O'Neill.

The University of Missouri defeats tiny Rollins College in the NCAA
championship game, 4-1.

The White Sox sign bonus baby Ron Jackson, 20 years old and 6'7", out of
Western Michigan University. He'll hit .280 for the Sox this year.

1955
The Tigers buy Earl Torgeson from the Phillies to replace Ferris Fain at 1B.

The Orioles trade OF Gene Woodling and IF Billy Cox to the Indians for
outfielders Wally Westlake and Dave Pope. When Cox announces his retirement,
the Indians get more cash.

The Indians pick up Ted Gray who had just been released by the White
Sox. He'll pitch in just 2 games before being released and the Yanks will
sign him on June 30. Gray will play for 4 teams this year, but appear in
just 14 games.

1957
At Kansas City, the Yankees win 9-2 over the A's, beating Virgil Trucks. In
more fallout over the Copacabana incident, the Yankees then trade Billy
Martin to Kansas City with SS Woodie Held and OF Bob Martyn for P Ryne Duren,
2B Milt Graff and outfielders Harry Simpson and Jim Pisoni.

The Giants send 2B Red Schoendienst to the Braves and receive OF Bobby
Thomson, infielder Danny O'Connell and P Ray Crone. It's a fine trade
for Milwaukee, as Schoendienst will lead the NL in hits while anchoring
the infield.

1958
Identical twins are split up by the Pirates when Eddie O'Brien stays with
Pittsburgh, but his brother Johnny, along with third baseman Gene Freeze,
is traded to the Cardinals for infielder Dick Schofield.

In a move that is perceived to be a prelude to a second deal with the Yankees,
the A's trade Woodie Held and Vic Power to the Indians for southpaw Dick
Tomanek, utility player Preston Ward and right fielder Roger Maris. Already
under pressure, for allowing Kansas City to be a farm club for the Bronx
Bombers, American League president, Will Harridge, warns owner Arnold
Johnson not to send the outfield slugger to New York for at least 18 months.

At New York, Yankee killers Jim Bunning and Frank Lary sweep the Yankees
2-0 and 3-0 in a Detroit twin bill. Lary gives up 4 hits and Bunning 3.

On the last day of trading, the Yanks send 1954 Rookie of the Year P Bob Grim
and OF/1B Harry "Suitcase" Simpson to the Athletics for P Virgil Trucks and
RHP Duke Maas. The Tigers trade P Bob Shaw and 1B Ray Boone to the White
Sox for OF Tito Francona and P Bill Fischer.

Dick Donovan and Jim Wilson of the White Sox sweep the Orioles 4-0 and 3-0
in a double header. Wilson allows only 2 hits.

The White Sox send OF Tito Francona and P Bill Fischer to the Tigers for
3B Ray Boone and P Bob Shaw. Shaw will lead the AL in win percentage in 1959.

1959
Cleveland, behind the pitching of Gary Bell, beats the Red Sox, 5-1, to
move into 1st place in the AL.

1960
Mexico City and Poza Rico combine to hit 12 HRs in one game, a Mexican
League record.

Philadelphia sends Wally Post back to Cincinnati, along with OF Harry Anderson
and 1B Fred Hopke, for outfielders Tony Gonzalez and Lee Walls. Gonzalez
will be a reliable starter for 9 years in Philley and, in 1962, will be
the first CF to field 1.000.

The Dodgers send another Brooklyn veteran packing when Clem Labine goes to
the Tigers for P Ray Semproch.

1961
Undefeated Ralph Terry's 11-inning 3-2 win at Cleveland moves the Yankees
into first place. Mantle's homer ties the score at 1-1 and Johnny Blanchard's
pinch single in the 11th wins it.

The expansion Senators are 30-30 after winning today. It is the latest date
an expansion team will be at .500. Washington will lose their next 10 games.

The Braves trade SS Johnny Logan to the Pirates for OF Gino Cimoli.

1962
The Phils score 10 in the 3rd, their biggest one-inning outburst since 1950,
and hold on to beat the Reds, 13-8.

1963
At Candlestick Park, Juan Marichal no-hits Houston, 1-0, to become the first
Giants hurler in 34 years (Carl Hubbell - May 8, 1929), and the first since
the franchise moved to San Francisco, to accomplish the feat. Marichal
is also the first Latin American to toss one in the ML. The 25-year-old
Dominican native outduels Colt .45's right-hander Dick Drott, who tosses
a complete-game three-hitter yielding the game's only run in the eighth
inning giving up doubles to Chuck Hiller and Jimmy Davenport. (Our thanks
to Richard J. Drake, who attended the game as a nine-year-old with his
grandfather, for reminding us about this outstanding achievement.)

St. Louis trades C/1B Gene Oliver and minor league P Bob Sadowski to the
Braves for P Lew Burdette. In 13 seasons with the Braves, Burdette and
Warren Spahn won 443 games between them.

Al Downing's 9-2 win against Detroit puts the Yankees in first place.

Ernie Banks, with 15 HRs up till now, will hit just 3 after this date. He
is diagnosed with sub clinical mumps, a disease that stays in his blood
and leaves him rundown and sick.

1964
St. Louis acquires OF Lou Brock, with pitchers Jack Spring and Paul Toth,
from the Cubs for pitchers Bobby Shantz and Ernie Broglio, and OF Doug
Clemens. Broglio, 28, has a 3-5 record, while Brock, a part-time OF with
Chicago, is hitting .251. Brock will blossom in St. Louis hitting .348
while swiping 33 bases. Brock will amass 3,023 career hits in 15 seasons.
Broglio will post a 7-19 record during his two and half seasons with Chicago.

The White Sox send 1B Joe Cunningham and a player to be named later to
Washington for 1B Bill Skowron and pitcher Carl Bouldin. The player named
later is P Frank Kreutzer, who is shipped on July 28.

Cleveland sends P Jim Grant to Minnesota for P Lee Stange and 3B/OF George
Banks.

1965
Tigers P Denny McLain makes a first-inning relief appearance and fans
the first 7 batters he faces, setting a ML record. He has a remarkable
14 strikeouts in 6 2/3 innings, tying the NL relief record (Marquard,
1911, 8 innings) and one shy of Walter Johnson's ML record (15 in 11 1/3
innings, 1913). Detroit rallies to beat Boston 6-5 as Bill Freehan records
a record-tying 19 putouts at catcher.

1966
Cincinnati trades P Joey Jay back to the Braves for P Hank Fischer.

The Yankees sell veteran P Bob Friend to the Mets.

1968
The Phillies fire manager Gene Mauch (27-27) and replace him with Bob Skinner,
skipper of the team's farm club in San Diego. 'The Little General', who is
best remembered for being at the helm during the club's infamous collapse
in 1964, compiled a 646-684 (.486) during his 8+year tenure with Philadelphia.

Chicago's Tommy John becomes the 9th AL pitcher to hit 4 batters in one game,
as he nails 4 Tigers in a 7-4 White Sox win.

The Yankees sign outfielder Rocky Colavito after his release by the
Dodgers. In another deal, New York sells P John Wyatt, acquired last month,
to the Tigers. They also sell sore-armed Jim Bouton to the Seattle Pilots
for next season. Bouton goes to the Seattle Angels (PCL) in the meanwhile.

1969
The Mets help their power needs by adding 1B Donn Clendenon. The 33-year-old
had refused a January trade that would send him from Montreal to Houston,
but agrees to go to New York. The Expos receive Steve Renko, Kevin Collins
and 2 minor leaguers. The Expos also purchase P Dick Radatz from the Tigers.

Cubs SS Don Kessinger sets a NL record with his 54th straight errorless
game to start a season, but Chicago loses 7-6 to start a doubleheader split
at Cincinnati.

The Red Sox send C Joe Azcue to California for Tom Satriano. It's Azcue's
3rd team this year.

1973
Fred Norman quickly pays dividends to the Reds by shutting out the Pirates,
6-0, in his first start for Cincinnati.

1974
The Angels sell Rudy May (0-1) to the Yankees where he will post an 8-4
record this year.

Baltimore beats the White Sox, 4-3, in 11 innings. Don Baylor enters the
game in the 9th as a pinch runner and makes the record books with a steal
and twice getting caught stealing, thanks to misplays by the Sox. Bobby
Grich opens with a single and Tommy Davis singles him to 3B. Davis is
then picked off, but an error by Dick Allen at 1B allows both runners to
move up. After an out, Ellie Hendricks singles Davis home and Baylor pinch
runs. Baylor gets caught stealing second but 2B Ron Santo drops the throw
from Herrmann. Baylor then swipes 3B and, following a intentional walk to
Brooks Robinson, he is caught stealing home, Herrmann unassisted. Etchebarren
strikes out to end the unique frame. Baylor's mark is a ML record, but will
be matched four times in the NL between 1987 and 1992.

1975
The Tigers give up on 1B Nate Colbert and sell the slugger to Montreal.

The White Sox make one of their better trades when they swap Stan Bahnsen
and a minor leaguer to Oakland for reliever Dave Hamilton and 20-year-old
minor league 3B Chet Lemon.

1976
Massive flooding in the Houston metropolitan area prevents the umpiring crew
from reaching the Astrodome and causes the first 'rain out' in the history
of the enclosed ballpark. After the game is called off, the Pirates and
Astros players, who had arrived early for practice, shared their clubhouse
meal on the field with the few die-hard fans who braved the elements hoping
to see a game.

No field goals today as Tom Poquette leads the Royals to a 21-7 win over
the Tigers. Poquette scores 5 runs on a 2 singles, 2 doubles and a HR.

The Cardinals send veteran Reggie Smith, an All-Star the past two seasons, to
the Dodgers in exchange for C/OF Joe Ferguson and two minor leaguers. Smith,
a native Californian, will continue his fine play for the Dodgers, while
Ferguson, who spent the 2nd half of 1975 on the DL, will be dealt to Houston
at the end of the year. Whether or not it's because they got the short end
of the deal, the Cards will not make another trade with the Dodgers for
more than a decade.

In what stands as one of the O's best trades ever, Baltimore obtains
pitchers Rudy May, Tippy Martinez, Dave Pagan, Scott McGregor and C Rick
Dempsey from the Yankees for veteran pitchers Doyle Alexander, Ken Holtzman,
Grant Jackson and C Elrod Hendricks. The veterans will help the Yankees
win a 1976 pennant and then fade.

1977
New York fans are in shock as the Mets trade ace P Tom Seaver to the
Reds. In return they get P Pat Zachry, IF Doug Flynn and minor leaguers
Steve Henderson and Dan Norman. The Mets also trade slugger Dave Kingman
to the Padres for utility player Bobby Valentine and a minor league pitcher.

The Reds keep trading today, sending P Gary Nolan to the Angels for INF Craig
Henderson. Cincy also swaps P Rawly Eastwick to the Cardinals for P Doug
Capilla. Then, a fine trade for the Brewers, Milwaukee snags P Mike Caldwell
from the Reds for P Dick O'Keeffe and infielder Garry Pyka. Caldwell has
had trouble regaining his form following arm surgery, but in 1978 he will
be the AL's comeback player of the year. In a final deal, the Reds acquire
infielder Rick Auerbach from the Texas Rangers.

The Phillies swap batteries with Montreal sending P Wayne Twichell and C
Tim Blackwell for C Barry Foote and P Dan Warthen. Then Philadelphia ships
P Tom Underwood, OF Rick Bosetti and 1B Dane Iorg to the Cardinals for Bake
McBride and Steve Waterbury. McBride will hit .339 after arriving in Philley.

The Astros beat the trade deadline and send 1B Cliff Johnson to the Yankees
for minor leaguers Mike Fischlin and Randy Niemann, and a player to be named
(Dave Bergman).

1978
In a swap of pitchers, the Phillies send Gene Garber to the Braves for
Dick Ruthven.

At Fenway, Jim Rice knocks in 4 runs with his 21st homer and a triple to
power the Red Sox to a 7-3 win over the A's. Yaz adds his 5th homer of the
year. Mike Torrez (10-2) is the winner over Lacey. Oakland has now lost 8 in
a row, while Boston runs their home record to 26-4. Hours after the game,
the Red Sox sell popular OF Bernie Carbo to the Indians, the last of what
the press dubbed as "The Outlaws." Others reportedly out of favor with
manager Don Zimmer and dealt off include Fergie Jenkins, Jim Willoughby,
Rick Wise and Reggie Cleveland. Sam Bowen is called up to take Carbo's place.

1979
Willie Wilson homers from both sides of the plate, including a 3-run
inside-the-park job in the 9th inning, to lead Kansas City to a 14-11
victory over Milwaukee.

The Yankees send Cliff Johnson to the Indians for P Don Hood. Johnson had
been in the Yankee doghouse ever since his brawl with teammate Goose Gossage
that put Goose on the DL for two months.

1980
Cleveland's Jorge Orta goes 6 for 6 (5 singles and a double) in a 14-5 rout
of the Twins, tying the AL record for hits in a 9-inning game.

1982
Pitching one scoreless inning to protect a 1-0 lead, Red Sox reliever Jeff
Reardon breaks Rollie Fingers' career save mark of 341.

In a convoluted three-way deal, the Pirates send vet Bill Robinson to the
Phils, while the Phils send promising OF Dick Davis to the Toronto Blue
Jays. The Jays send Wayne Nordhagen to the Bucs. Nordhagen plays one game for
Pittsburgh, going 2 for 4, and then goes down with a stiff back. Claiming
a pre-existent injury, the Pirates complain to Toronto, and on June 25 the
Jays agree to take Nordhagen back, sending Dick Davis to the Pirates. Alas,
Davis, who plays in 9 road games with the Jays, will hit .182 for the Bucs.

1983
The Cardinals trade former MVP Keith Hernandez to the Mets for a pair
of right-handed hurlers, Neil Allen and Rick Ownbey. The righties will
compile a 21-22 record for the Redbirds, and the Gold Glove first baseman
will spend seven seasons in New York batting .297, playing an instrumental
role in the club's World Championship in 1986.

Darrell Evans hits 3 homeruns in a Giants' 7-1 win over the Astros to give
him a ML-leading 18 for the season. Evans will finish the season with 30 HRs.

1984
The Cardinals trade 3B Ken Oberkfell to the Braves for pitcher Ken Dayley
and 1B Mike Jorgensen. Oberkfell was leading St. Louis with a .309 batting
average.

Seattle Mariners rookie lefthander Mark Langston strikes out 12 batters,
including seven consecutively, in a no-decision against the Texas
Rangers. Seattle wins, 4-3, in the 9th.

1985
Seattle's infield records 21 assists in a 2-1 win over Kansas City, tying
the ML record last accomplished by the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1935.

1987
In Pittsburgh's 3-1 win over the Cardinals, Pirate base runner Jim Morrison
sets a ML record by getting caught stealing home twice in the 8th inning. The
first time he makes it back to 3B on an error, but it goes as a caught
stealing. Undaunted, he tries to steal again on reliever Horton and is out
at home.

1988
Indianapolis (Triple A) lefty Randy Johnson, about to be recalled by the
Expos, is forced to leave a game against Richmond after knocking down a
line drive with his pitching hand. Angry at himself, Johnson reaches the
dugout and punches the bat rack with his right hand. His left hand is okay,
but his right hand is broken, delaying his recall.

1991
Pitching against the Reds in only his second major league start, Phillies
rookie Andy Ashby strikes out the side on 9 pitches in the 4th inning. A
first for the Phillies, it is the 19th time in major league history this
has happened, and the 4th time a rookie has accomplished the feat. Hod Eller
(1917), Sloppy Thurston (1923) and Nolan Ryan (1968) were the other freshmen
to turn the trick. Ashby is the loser in the 3-1 Phillie loss.

Another rookie makes his mark as the Giants Mike Remlinger, in his first
ML start, shuts out the Pirates, 4-0.

Former baseball commissioner Albert "Happy" Chandler dies of a stroke at
age 92. As commissioner from 1945 to 1951, Chandler held office when Jackie
Robinson broke baseball's color barrier in 1947.

1992
The NY-Penn Minor League Erie Sailors beat the Jamestown Expos in 13
innings at College Stadium, 6-5, marking the first ever game played by a
team representing the National League's new expansion team, the Florida
Marlins. The first pitch of the franchise is thrown by John Lynch, who
will leave baseball to eventually become a safety for the NFL Tampa Bay
Buccaneers and Denver Broncos.

Red Sox P Jeff Reardon moves into first place on the all-time save list
with number 342. It comes in Boston's 1-0 win over the Yankees. Dopson is
the winner over Sanderson. Plantier's homer is the only score.

Jeff King of the Pirates becomes the 5th player in major league history to
be caught stealing twice in an inning. In the 5th inning of Pittsburgh's game
against Philadelphia, King leads off with a single. He's trapped off base, but
collides with Phillies P Terry Mulholland as he tries to get back. Mulholland
is called for interference, and King is charged with a caught stealing, even
though he remained on base. Later that inning, he is thrown out attempting
to steal 3B. The Phillies win the game by a score of 4-1.

1993
Seattle's Ken Griffey Jr hits the 100th HR of his career in the Mariners'
6-1 win over the Royals, making him the 6th-youngest player to reach that
level in major league history.

The Braves edge the Mets, 2-1, in a pitching duel between Bret Saberhagen
and Tom Glavine. Saberhagen goes 8 innings, allowing a homerun to Sid
Bream. Glavine finishes the Mets with 79 pitches, allowing just a HR to Darrin
Jackson, his first hit as a Met since coming from Toronto. The Mets also
lose closer John Franco, who walks in the winning run, then later punches
the door to the sauna in the visiting clubhouse and needs stitches in the
knuckle of his right index finger. Franco trashed a clubhouse last week,
firing an ash tray during the tantrum.

After baseball owners have an all day meeting in Denver to discuss, among
other things, bench-clearing brawls, they arrive at Mile High Stadium for the
7th inning, and witness two fights and 4 ejections. After a Ramon Martinez
brushback pitch, Andres Galarraga singles and breaks for second clipping 2B
Jody Reed with his spikes. Martinez then plunks Charlie Hayes, who charges
the mound, and the brawling starts. Rock's reliever Keith Shephard, a former
boxer, throws at Cory Snyder in the 8th, then gestures him to come on. Brawl
2 and 2 more ejections. The Dodgers win, 12-4.

1995
Mike Benjamin goes 1 for 5 to total 15 hits in his last four games, the 1st
player to do so since Detroit's Walt Dropo in 1952. Benjamin, a career .185
hitter in 7 seasons before his salvo, had just 13 hits between June 10,
1994 and June 11, 1995.

The Royals defeat the Athletics behind the 1-hit pitching of Mark Gubicza,
who walks just 1 while fanning 5. Mark McGwire's single is Oakland's only hit.

1996
In the first inning of their 6-2 victory of the Braves, the Dodgers turn
their first triple play in forty-seven years. After making a running,
back-to-the-plate grab of Chipper Jones' popup to short left with runners
on first and second, Juan Castro throws to second baseman Delino Deshields
to double up Marquis Grissom, then the ball is relayed to first baseman Eric
Karosto get Mark Lemke, who was also running on the pitch. Nomo gets the win.

Kansas City relief pitcher Mike Magnante hurls 5 1/3 innings of 1 hit ball
to gain credit for the Royals' 7-6 16 inning win over the Orioles. The
outing drops Magnante's ERA to 5.33.

At the Metrodome, Cecil Fielder's routine fly ball hits the ceiling for a
2-out 2-run double in the 7th breaking a 5-5 tie. The Tigers win, 7-5.

The Mets put young Paul Wilson on the disabled list for the next month with
tendinitis. After the season, he'll be diagnosed with a small tear of the
right labrum and he'll undergo surgery on November 12.

1997
At Wrigley, the Cubs beat the Brewers, 4-3, to take the interleague
series, 2-1. Frank Castillo allows five hits in 6 1/3 innings and K's
seven to win. The teams draw 112,690 for the three games - 7,638 shy of
the Wrigley Field record of 120,328 for a three-game series, set in 1994
against Cincinnati.

The host Expos drum the Tigers 10-2 as Henry Rodriguez drills a homer off
the rim of Olympic Stadium, only the second player to do so. The Expos
sweep three to extend their winning streak to nine. With the score tied
at one apiece Rodriguez homers off Brian Moehler (4-6) leading off the
fourth. The ball rebounds off the 160-foot-high rim and lands on the field.

1998
Cubs OF Sammy Sosa hits 3 HRs in Chicago's 6-5 victory over the Brewers. The
3 round-trippers give him 15 in his last 16 games. Kerry Wood, 21 today,
is the victor.

Colorado scores 3 runs in the top of the 12th - 2 on a HR by Ellis Burks -
and holds on for a 4-3 win over San Francisco. The Giants score 2 in the
bottom of the 12th on J.T. Snow's 2nd HR of the game.

Tampa Bay gets homeruns from its first two hitters, Quinton McCracken and
Wade Boggs, and McCracken homers again in the 2nd with 2 on. But TB needs
3 runs in the 8th to beat the Blue Jays, 8-7.

1999
Brewers pitcher Jim Abbott, who was born without a right hand, gets his
first hit in his 11-year career. He previously played exclusively for
American League teams and didn't bat due to the DH rule. The Cubs defeat
the Brewers, 7-4.

Orioles first baseman Will Clark gets his 2,000th career hit in the 10-inning
victory over the Royals, 6-5. The 'Thrill' will end his 15-year big league
career next season with 2,176 hits.

The Blue Jays score 9 runs in the 6th inning on the way to a 13-2 win over
the Angels.

The Marlins trade 2B Craig Counsell to the Dodgers in exchange for a player
to be named.

2001
The Mariners defeat the Padres, 8-4, to run their mark to 51-14. No AL team
has ever won as many of their first 65 games of the year.

The Reds acquire OF Ruben Mateo and 3B Edwin Encarnacion from the Rangers
for P Rob Bell. Bell, 0-5 at Cincy, tries changing his luck by wearing
#6. The Rangers also claim C Marcus Jensen off waivers from the Red Sox.

2003
Blue Jay rookie Reed Johnson becomes the fourth major leaguer to end a
game with a walk off homer after having hit a round-tripper to start the
contest for his team. The 26-year-old right-fielder drilled Shawn Estes'
3-2 pitch over the left-centerfield fence leading off in the bottom of the
first frame, and then ended the 4-4 stalemate with a tenth-inning solo shot
off Cubs reliever Mark Guthrie. The last player to start and finish a game
with a HR was Darin Erstad of the Angels in 2000.

The Mets shut out the Angels, 8-0, behind Steve Trachsel's one-hitter. David
Eckstein's 2-out single in the 6th in Anaheim's only safety. Rookie SS
Jose Reyes hits a grand slam to lead NY, becoming just the 2nd player in
team history (in addition to Jack Hamilton) to hit a grand slam as his 1st
ML homer.

2005
Joining Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Governor George Pataki and team officials,
George Steinbrenner announces plans for a new ballpark in the Bronx. The
Yankee-financed $800 million facility, which will be built north of the
current stadium in Macombs Dam Park, will seat at least 51,800 and will
mirror the 'The House that Ruth Built' including limestone walls and the
familiar copper frieze.

2006
The Mets edge the Phillies, 5-4. New York sets a ML record by winning its
8th consecutive game on the road when scoring in the 1st inning. The 1939
Yankees did it 7 straight games.

2009
Matt Dermody, a Norwalk (IA) High School senior, strikes out every South Tama
High batter who steps to the plate in a game shortened to six innings due to
the state's mercy rule, invoked when a team leads by ten or more runs after
five frames. The 6-foot-5 southpaw, recently drafted in the 26th round by
the Pirates, will attend the University of Iowa, playing for the Hawkeyes,
before signing with the Blue Jays in 2013.

2016 	
"I'm not trying to take anything away from Ichiro, he's had a Hall of Fame
career, but the next thing you know, they'll be counting his high-school
hits." - Pete Rose, as quoted in USA Today.  Ichiro Suzuki's ninth-inning
double in the Marlins' 6-3 loss to the Padres at Petco Park raises his
professional hit total to 4,257, surpassing Pete Rose's all-time major
league mark. The 42-year-old outfielder's total includes the 1,278 hits he
collected for Orix in Japan's Pacific League.

2017
Corey Kluber of Cleveland became the fastest in franchise history to record
1,000 career strikeouts by striking out Yasiel Puig of the Los Angeles
Dodgers in the fifth inning. He accomplished this feat in 148 games,
breaking the record of 167 games set by Bob Feller.

2019
With his homerun against the Toronto Blue Jays, Yordan Alvarez tied a Major
League record by hitting at least four homeruns in his first five career
games. In becoming the fourth player to achieve this mark, Alvarez joined
Trevor Story (six in 2016), Yasiel Puig (four in 2013) and Mike Jacobs
(four in 2005).

