Apr 2

1908
After a 2-year investigation, the Mills Committee, formed on the
recommendation of Al Spalding and headed by the former NL president
A.G. Mills, declares that baseball was invented by Abner Doubleday in
Cooperstown, New York in 1839. Overwhelming evidence to the contrary is
ignored, but the designation makes James Fenimore Cooper's town the most
likely site for a Hall of Fame and museum when these establishments are
conceived some 30 years later.

1925
Good night, Gracie. The Reds sell George Burns to the Phillies.

1926
Hugh Jennings, slated to be the Giants assistant manager, is unable to join
the team due to illness. Roger Bresnahan replaces him.

1931
Miss Jackie Mitchell, a 17-year-old gate attraction for Joe Engel's
Chattanooga Lookouts (Southern Association), pitches against the New York
Yankees in an exhibition game in Chattanooga. Babe Ruth waves wildly at
two pitches and watches a 3rd strike go by. Lou Gehrig gallantly times his
3 swings to miss the ball, but unsmiling Tony Lazzeri, after first trying
to bunt, walks and Miss Mitchell leaves the game. The final score is 14-4
Yankees. In 1933 Mitchell will pitch for the House of David team.

1937
Dizzy Dean, Paul Dean and Joe Medwick have a scuffle in a Tampa hotel lobby
with New York News reporter Jack Miley and Chicago Times writer Irv Kupcinet.

1939
At Los Angeles, the Angels split a pair with Hollywood, losing 10-6 and
winning 7-2. The second game win starts a PCL record 19-game winning streak
for the Angels.

1942
The Sporting News raises its price to 15 cents a copy, $7 per year. For the
first time in nearly 70 years there will be no Spalding or Reach guides. The
Sporting News takes over the role. Its first edition has some improvements
but also some flaws:  additional AL pitching records are missing, and so
is Lou Boudreau's entire batting record.

Publisher A.J. Spink, in TSN, reports on the result of a poll of 100 former
major leaguers and managers as to who their choice is as best player of all
time. Ty Cobb is the overwhelming pick, getting 60 of the votes cast. The
remaining 42 votes are divided among 14 players:  Honus Wagner (17); Babe
Ruth (11); and Rogers Hornsby and Ross Youngs (2 votes each). The following
players each received one vote:  Lou Gehrig, Ed Delahanty, Tris Speaker, Joe
DiMaggio, Mel Ott, George Sisler, Eddie Collins, Christy Mathewson, Walter
Johnson and Jerry Denny. Among those who reveal they voted for Cobb are
Speaker, Collins, Sisler, Johnson, Al Simmons, Connie Mack and Jack Coombs.

1944
In a pre-game exhibition before playing the Jersey City Giants in Lakehurst,
New Jersey, outfielder Danny Gardella and 1B Phil Weintraub of the NY Giants
catch balls dropped from a blimp 400 feet above the ground.

1947
The Indians purchase George Metkovich from the Red Sox. According to legend,
Casey Stengel, who will manage the Californians next season in the PCL,
coins the nickname 'Catfish' after the first baseman/outfielder injures
himself trying to extract a hook from the bottom-dweller.

1951
Boston slugger Walt Dropo, the 1950 AL Rookie of the Year, breaks his wrist.

1952
In Denver, Giants' Monte Irvin breaks his ankle sliding into third during an
exhibition game against the Indians. The future Hall of Fame outfielder will
appear in just 46 games this season, mostly as a pinch-hitter, batting .310.

1962
The Indians trade Gold Glove first baseman Vic Power and left-handed pitcher
Dick Stigman to the Twins for 20-game loser Pedro Ramos, who will compile a
26-30 record during his 2+ seasons with the Tribe. Powers will contribute 2+
solid seasons with the Twins batting .278, and their new southpaw will post
a .702 winning percentage, the best in the American League this season,
winning 12 of 17 decisions.

1963
The Pirates steal young OF Manny Mota from the Colt 45's, which had acquired
him in December, sending Houston OF Howie Goss and cash. For 5 years,
Mota will be a solid 4th outfielder for the Bucs, often platooning with
lefthanded hitters Jerry Lynch, Willie Stargell and Matty Alou.

1968
Tony Conigliaro returns to Boston with vision trouble. He will miss the
1968 season.

1972
Hank Aaron, Rico Carty and Orlando Cepeda all start in an exhibition
game. It is the first time the trio of sluggers, sidelined with a variety
of injuries over the past two seasons, have appeared together in the Braves
lineup since 1970.

After playing a round of golf in West Palm Beach with his coaches on
Easter Sunday, Mets manager Gil Hodges, two days shy of his 48th birthday,
suffers a fatal heart attack. The club will name current first base coach
and former Yankee skipper Yogi Berra to run the team when the strike-delayed
season begins.

1976
In a blockbuster trade a week before the season starts, the Orioles deal Don
Baylor, Paul Mitchell and Mike Torrez to the A's in exchange for Ken Holtzman,
Reggie Jackson and Bill Van Bommel. A month will pass before Jackson will
report to his new team accounting for Baltimore's slow start in April.

1982
In an exhibition game against the Padres, A's pitcher Steve McCatty steps
to the plate wielding a 15-inch toy bat on the instructions of manager
Billy Martin, who was upset that his club was not allowed to use a DH in
spring training games at NL parks. Home plate umpire Jim Quick refuses to
let McCatty use the bat, and McCatty takes 3 called strikes.

1984
For the first time in ten years, the Mets lose on Opening Day bowing to
the Reds, 8-1. The last time the team dropped a season opener was in 1974
when Mike Schmidt hit a two-run walk-off homer off Tug McGraw giving the
Phillies' a 5-4 victory over New York at Veterans Stadium.

In Baltimore, President Reagan throws out the first pitch, just the 3rd
President to do so outside of Washington. He then sits in the Baltimore
Orioles dugout with owner Edward Bennett Williams for the first inning
before exiting. The Orioles beat the White Sox, 5-2.

1992
The Phillies acquire Curt Schilling from Houston in exchange for Jason
Grimsley (1-7 in 1991). Schilling will play nine seasons in the City of
Brotherly Love becoming the team's ace while Grimsley will never throw a
pitch in an Astros uniform.

1993
In the final Spring training game for the Red Sox, Frank Viola and Corey
Bailey combine to no-hit the Phillies, winning 10-0.

1995
Having the first 23 days of this season canceled and 252 games of the last
season lost, the owners accept the players' March 31 unconditional offer
to return to work. The players' decision to return to work is made after
a U.S. District judge issues an injunction restoring terms and conditions
of the expired agreement. Teams will play 144-game schedules with games
beginning on April 26. Yesterday's Marlins-Mets opener was postponed.

1996
Tiger first baseman Cecil Fielder steals the first base of his eleven-year
career. The swipe of second comes in the 1,097th game 'Big Daddy' has
played in the majors establishing the longest duration a player has ever
gone without a stolen base. In the 9th inning, he takes off for 2nd base
with a 3-2 count on Melvin Nieves and beats the throw from catcher Greg
Myers. Tiger rookie RHP Clint Sodowsky allows 7 hits in 5 innings in his
debut, and the Tigers win 10-6.

On Opening Day, Derek Jeter hits a homerun off Dennis Martinez in New
York's 7-1 victory over the Indians at Jacobs Field. The 22-year-old
infielder becomes the first Yankee rookie to play shortstop at the start
of the season since 1962 when Tom Tresh filled in for Tony Kubek, who had
reported to duty when his National Guard unit was federalized. Joe Torre
wins the first of his 1173 victories as the manager of the Yankees. During
his 12-year tenure, the Bronx Bombers will reach the post season each year,
winning ten American League East Division titles, six American League
pennants, and four World Championships.

At Baltimore, President Clinton tosses out the first ball and then watches
Cal Ripken Jr drive in 3 runs to give the Orioles a 4-2 win over the Royals.

The Mets announce that Bill Pulsipher will miss the 1996 season. The
22-year-old lefty experienced arm pain while throwing on March 28th, and
results from an MRI indicate torn ligaments in his left arm necessitating
surgery April 17.

In the opener Milwaukee has 22 hits including homers by Greg Vaughn and
Jose Valentin, to outscore the Twins, 15-9. Valentin and Chuck Carr have
4 hits apiece. Other hitting in the game includes Vaughn getting plunked
in the 8th inning, and Brewers pitcher Kevin Wickender retaliating in the
bottom of the inning by hitting Garret Anderson. Both benches then clear
for the traditional scrum in the center of the infield.

1997
For the first time in major league history, the salary of one player is more
than the payroll of an entire team. The White Sox will pay Albert Belle $10
million for the season which is $928,333 more than the entire Pirate payroll.

Gary Sheffield (.314, 42, 120) and the Marlins agree to a six-year $61
million contract extension. The deal is the largest in total dollars in
baseball history, but is only the third highest annual salary behind Albert
Belle (White Sox - $11 million) and Barry Bonds (Giants - $11,131,157).

Paced by Tino Martinez, who belts homers in each of his first three at
bats, the visiting Yankees rout the Mariners, 16-2. Martinez' shots, all
off starter Scott Sanders, come with the bases empty, one on and two on. In
three of his final four times at-bat, the bases are full, but Tino fails
to connect for his 4th dinger, singling once and walking with the bases
loaded. Martinez drives home 7 runs and scores 5 runs.

Jimmy Key pitches the Orioles to a 4-2 Opening Day win over the visiting
Royals. Kevin Appier takes the loss. Key is now 7-0 on Opening Day.

Eight days after being traded to the Indians, David Justice debuts and hits
a tie-breaking 2-run homer in the 7th to lead Cleveland to a 9-7 win over
the A's. Justice adds a triple, single and RBI groundout.

The Rocket blasts off in his first start for the Blue Jays striking out
9 White Sox batters and scattering 6 hits to win, 6-1. Clemens' complete
game win is his 193rd victory.

The Mariners sign 35-year-old Alvaro Espinosa.

1998
With the help of Jeromy Burnitz' (his second of two homers in the game)
grand slam in the top of the frame, the Brewers record their first National
League victory when they beat Atlanta in 11 innings, 8-6. The franchise,
which started in Seattle in 1969 before moving to Milwaukee a year later,
played in the American League for the first 29 years of its existence before
switching circuits, a move necessitated by the restructuring of each league
from two divisions into three.

Kevin Elster, Mike Simms, Juan Gonzalez, Ivan Rodriguez and Lee Stevens all
homer as Texas pounds out a 20-4 win over the White Sox. The Rangers, with
23 safeties, tie an AL record as 9 players have 2 or more hits in the contest.

By hitting a HR in Colorado's 6-4 win over Arizona at Bank One Ballpark,
Rockies OF Ellis Burks sets a major league record by having homered in 33
different stadiums.

1999
The Orioles obtain 1B-OF Jeff Conine from the Royals for minor league P
Chris Fussell.

2001
For the first time in major league history, a Japanese-born position player
participates in a regular-season major league game. Ichiro Suzuki, hitless
in his first three at-bats, singles in the seventh inning to ignite a two-run
rally and bunts for a hit in the eighth in his Mariner debut at Safeco Field.

The Yankees defeat the Royals, 7-3, as Roger Clemens records 5 strikeouts
and moves ahead of Walter Johnson as the all-time leader in strikeouts in AL
history with 3,509. According to Total Baseball, Clemens has 3,509 but the
Elias Sports Bureau has him with one fewer. The extra strikeout was first
discovered in the early 1990s by John Schwartz and it came on September 12,
1907. The Rocket makes it moot in his next outing. The 'Rocket' now takes
over the seventh spot in major league history.

Gary Sheffield homers over the CF fence as the Dodgers beat Milwaukee, 1-0,
to give new manager Jim Tracy his first win. Dodgers righthander Chan Ho
Park is the winner, running his consecutive scoreless innings streak to 32
over 2 seasons.

David Wells pitches 6 strong innings and Magglio Ordonez hits a 3-run homer
as the White Sox beat the Indians, 7-4, in the opener for both teams. Colon
gives up all 7 Chicago runs. The bright spot for the Tribe is Juan Gonzalez
who bangs 2 homers, the 1st Indian with 2 HRs on Opening Day since Duke
Sims in 1968. Gonzalez also becomes just the 4th player to twice hit 2
HRs on Opening Day (Eddie Mathews:  1954, 1958; Raul Mondesi: 1995, 1999;
Joe Torre:  1965, 1966).

Vlad Guerrero has an RBI single in the 10th to give the Expos a 5-4 win
over the Cubs. The Expos finish with INF Mike Mordecai behind the plate
replacing Sandy Martinez, who injures his elbow trying to throw out Eric
Young in the 10th. Starting C Mike Barrett is thumbed out of the game in
the 8th. Tim Raines pinch hits for the Expos, thus becoming the 27th ML
player to play in 4 decades.

The Giants Livan Hernandez beats the Padres, 3-2, with relief help from Robb
Nen, who K's the side in the 9th. Barry Bonds homers for the Giants. Tony
Gwynn's 8th inning RBI-single is his 3,110th hit tying him with Dave
Winfield for 17th place on the all-time hit list. With his start today,
Gwynn becomes the 5th player in NL history to spend 20+ years playing his
entire career with one team. The others are:  Cap Anson, 1871-97 Cubs (five
years in the National Association); Mel Ott, 1926-47 Giants; Stan Musial,
1941-44, 1946-63 Cardinals; Willie Stargell, 1962-82 Pirates.

The Reds sell lefty Ed Yarnell to the Orix Blue Wave (Japan) for
$300,000. Yarnell, the 2000 IL pitcher of the year, came to the Reds in
the Denny Neagle trade with the Yankees.

Former Yankees OF Darryl Strawberry is arrested at a Tampa hospital on
a violation of a probation warrant. He has been missing for 4 days after
leaving his drug treatment center on Thursday.

Boston's Nomar Garciaparra has surgery for a split tendon in his right
wrist. He will be out till late August.

2002
In his major league debut, 6' 11" hurler Jon Rauch of the White Sox pitches
a perfect 1 1/3 innings in a 7-4 loss to the Mariners at Safeco Field. The
Louisville, Kentucky native, who was a member of the 2000 U.S. Olympic team,
becomes the tallest pitcher to appear in a big league game.

In beating the Padres, 9-0, the Diamondbacks became the first defending
World Champion to open the season with back-to-back shutouts since the
1919 Red Sox. The Red Sox shutouts were thrown by Carl Mays and Sad Sam
Jones. The last team to start the year with consecutive shutouts was the
1994 Giants. Schilling is the winner today, following Randy Johnson's
2-0 two-hitter yesterday over the Padres. The D'backs get all 9 runs
off Brian Tollberg, who leaves after 2 2/3 innings. Damian Miller has a
grand slam. Before the game the Diamondbacks receive their WS rings: Curt
Schilling's son, Gehrig, accepts for him.

Ben Sheets delivers the Brewers first win in 2002 aided by homeruns from
Richie Sexson, Geoff Jenkins and Alex Ochoa in a 9-3 Opening Day victory
at Houston.

2003
Mike Bordick's record streak for games and chances without an error by a
shortstop ends as Yankee outfielder Bubba Trammell's third inning grounder
tips off his glove. After converting a fielder's choice in the first inning
he misplays his second chance of the game establishing 544 chances and 110
consecutive games without an error as a new major league mark for shortstops.

According to the Elias Sports Bureau the Tigers become the first major
league team to have four pitchers make their big league debuts during the
same game. Twenty-year-old starter Jeremy Bonderman, who gives up six runs
on nine hits in four innings, is followed by rookies Wilfredo Ledezma,
Chris Spurling and Matt Roney in a 8-1 loss to the Minnesota Twins.

Todd Zeile homers in his first at-bat as a Yankee becoming the only major
leaguer to hit a homerun for ten different teams surpassing Tommy Davis
who went deep for nine different clubs. In addition to homering with the
Bronx Bombers, the infielder has also gone deep for the Cardinals, Cubs,
Phillies, Orioles, Dodgers, Marlins, Rangers, Mets and Rockies.

At 27 years 249 days of age, Alex Rodriguez becomes the youngest player in
major league history to hit 300 homeruns. The Ranger shortstop's fifth inning
three-run blast surpasses the mark established by Hall of Famer Jimmie Foxx,
who had accomplished the feat while being 79 days older than A-Rod.

The Cubs P Matt Clement fires 3 wild pitches in the 1st inning of his start
against the Mets. He leaves after 3 innings due to tightness in his lower
back after giving up 3 runs in the 1st and one in the 2nd. Al Leiter is
the winner, 4-1.

2004
The Dodgers send P Steve Colyer and a player to be named to the Tigers for
OF Cody Ross.

2006
The White Sox open the season with a 10-4 win over the Indians. Jim Thome
homers in his 1st game for Chicago and Brandon McCarthy gets the win in
relief in a game that is held up nearly 3 hours because of rain.

2007
Josh Hamilton receives a 22-second standing ovation from the fans at
Great American Ball Park as he makes his major league debut. The Reds
25-year-old rookie, a former number one draft choice who has overcome a
nearly career-ending history of substance abuse, lines out pinch-hitting
for pitcher Kirk Saarloos in the eighth inning and then plays left field
for the remainder of the 5-1 Opening Day victory over the Cubs.

Right-hander Mike Hampton, who signed the richest contract ever given to a
pitcher, makes his Rockies debut getting the victory when the team beats
the Cardinals 8-0. The 123.8 million dollar man will get off to a quick
9-2 start for Colorado, but will finish his stay in the mountains 12-27
over the next one and half seasons before being dealt to the Braves.

In a 9-5 loss to New York, Elijah Dukes of the Devil Rays becomes the 99th
major leaguer to homer in his first official at-bat. The 22-year-old rookie
center fielder is the first to accomplish the feat at Yankee Stadium on an
Opening Day.

For only the fourth time in major league history, a hurler under the age of 21
wins an Opening Day assignment as 20-year-old Venezuelan right-hander Felix
Hernandez pitches eight strong innings in the Mariners 4-0 victory over the
A's at Safeco Field. Fernando Valenzuela of the Dodgers was the last pitcher
'not of age' to accomplish the feat beating the Astros, 2-0, in 1981.

Tony Pena Jr's two Opening Day triples help the Royals rip the Red Sox at
Kauffman Stadium, 7-1. The rookie shortstop, the son of a Yankee coach,
is the first major leaguer to hit a pair of the three-baggers on Opening
Day since Tommy Henrich did it for the Bronx Bombers in 1950.

In his first big league at-bat, rookie third baseman Alex Gordon, the Royals
#1 pick and second overall in 2005, receives a standing ovation from the
Kauffman Stadium crowd as he steps to the plate. The former Golden Spikes
Award winner is just the fourth player in franchise history to make his
major league debut on Opening Day.

During the Royals' Opening Day ESPN telecast, commentator Joe Morgan
announces the team will honor the late Buck O'Neil by placing a fan, who
best exemplifies his spirit, in a special seat during every home game at
Kauffman Stadium. The first person to sit in the Buck O'Neil Legacy Seat,
easily identified by its red color in a sea of blue behind home plate,
is the Negro League legend's younger brother, Warren.

Cincinnati mayor Mark Mallory's ceremonial first pitch in the Reds' home
opener lands thirty feet up the first base line from home plate, widely
missing its intended target, a bewildered Eric Davis. The terrible toss
will receive national media attention including the politician receiving
a second chance on ABC's Jimmy Kimmel Live, an opportunity in which his
Honor will also widely miss the mark.

2008
Calling it one of the dumbest ejections he has ever had to make, third base
ump Ed Montague tosses Larry Bowa for not staying within the boundaries
of the coaching box. The Dodgers base coach, although warned several times
to follow the new edict put in place by MLB following the tragic death of
Tulsa Drillers' first base coach Mike Coolbaugh, will be suspended for
three games for "inappropriate and aggressive conduct," in which he had
to be restrained by manager Joe Torre and bench coach Bob Schaefer in the
sixth inning of the 3-2 victory over the Giants in Los Angeles.

Kevin Youkilis establishes the longest errorless streak by a first baseman
playing the field flawlessly for 194 games. The Red Sox infielder, who
hasn't committed an error at first base since July 4, 2006, breaks Steve
Garvey's mark set with the Padres from 1983-85.

2009
The Brewers sign Jason Tyner to a minor league contract.

2011
Ian Kinsler leads off the bottom of first with a round-tripper off Red Sox'
Jon Lackey to become the first major leaguer ever to hit leadoff homers in
each of his team's first two games. On Opening Day, the Texas second baseman
also took Boston's Jonathan Lester deep as the Rangers' first batter of
the season.

David Ortiz breaks the major league record for RBIs by a designated hitter
established by Seattle's Edgar Martinez. 'Big Papi', who hit a two-run
homer in the second to tie the mark, drives in Alex Gonzalez for his
record-setting 1,004th career run batted in as a DH with a fourth-inning
groundout to first base in the Red Sox' 12-5 loss to Texas.

2012
Matt Cain, the longest-tenured Giant, comes to terms with the team on a
five-year extension that will keep the 6'5" Tennessean with San Francisco
until 2017. The 27-year-old right-hander has been the workhorse of the
staff averaging 32 starts in each of the last six seasons.

2013
Marwin Gonzalez's two-out ninth-inning single, a hit that goes through
the box between the pitcher's legs, spoils Yu Darvish's bid for a perfect
game. The 26-year-old Ranger starter is removed from the Minute Maid Park
contest after giving up the disappointing hit, and watches reliever Michael
Kirkman close the Texas 7-0 victory over Houston.

2014
Rookie catcher Tony Sanchez, pinch-hitting in the bottom of the 16th inning,
singles in the winning run to end the 5-hour 55-minute contest, now the
longest game in Pittsburgh history by time. The 4-3 victory over Chicago
took six minutes longer to play than the Bucs' 8-7 18-inning victory over
Houston in 2006.

2017
Madison Bumgarner of the Giants became the first pitcher in Major League
history to hit two homeruns on Opening Day.

2019
At age 35, Zach Greinke became the oldest pitcher since 1957 to hit multiple
homeruns in the same game, against the San Diego Padres.

