Apr 4

1903
The Philadelphia Athletics threaten to strike unless they share in the
receipts of last fall's City Series. They don't get the money, but they
don't strike.

1910
William Howard Taft is the first American president to throw the ceremonial
first pitch at a game.

Boston (NL) acquires OF Wilson Collins and 3B Buck Herzog from the Giants
for OF Beals Becker.

1911
The idea of selecting a Most Valuable Player is introduced. Hugh Chalmers,
the automobile maker, offers a new car to the player in each league chosen
MVP by a committee of baseball writers. This is in response to last year's
controversy where Chalmers ended up presenting cars to both Lajoie and Ty
Cobb, the AL batting leaders. The first winners of the MVP, selected by
a vote of one baseball writer representing each franchise in the league,
will be Tigers outfielder Ty Cobb and Frank Schulte of the Cubs.

1918
The Phillies trade infielder Bert Niehoff (.255, 2, 42) and send cash to
the Cardinals for rookie right-hander Mule Watson. Niehoff will play just
one more season before retiring while Watson will pitch two seasons with
Philadelphia, posting a 7-11 record, before being traded to the Braves.

1919
In Tampa, the Red Sox begin Grapefruit League play at their new spring
training site and edge the Giants 5-3 behind Babe Ruth's 4 RBIs. The
Babe clouts a homer nearly 600 feet along with 2 singles. Decades later,
a plaque will be erected where the homer lands, on the present site of the
University of Tampa.

1934
In Orlando, the Red Sox discover that veteran Lefty Grove, bought from the
A's, has a sore arm. He will win only 8 games in 1934 but will return to
good form in 1935. Connie Mack says, "I'm reluctant to believe that Grove's
arm is as severely injured as some stories state. But the deal goes as it
stands. Nothing can alter that sale as of this date."

1937
In an Indians-Giants exhibition game in New Orleans, Hank Leiber is beaned
by a Bob Feller fastball and suffers a brain concussion. He will miss most
of the upcoming season, not returning to action till late July.

Detroit sells 35-year-old OF Al Simmons, coming off a .327 season, to
Washington for $15,000.

1947
The adoption of a ML pension plan is effective immediately.

1948
A's manager Connie Mack, who is 84 years old, challenges Clark Griffith,
the 78-year-old owner of the Senators, to a foot race from home plate to
first base. The contest ends in a photo finish tie.

1950
When the train carrying the Indians pulls out of the El Paso station, a
22-caliber bullet shatters the compartment window of Al Simmons and Oscar
Melillo. Neither coach is hurt.

1953
At San Diego, Hollywood (PCL) beats San Diego, 6-5, as Ted Beard of Hollywood
drives in all the runs with 4 homeruns.

1960
The White Sox send C Earl Battey and 1B Don Mincher plus cash to the Senators
for 1B Roy Sievers.

1961
The Yankees reacquire P Duke Maas, trading INF Fritz Brickell to the Angels
in exchange. The Angels had paid the Yanks $75,000 for Maas in the 1960
expansion draft.

1968
Due to today's assassination of civil rights leader Martin Luther King
most of the major league teams will decide to postpone their opening day
games until the reverend's funeral takes place in five days. Surprisingly,
the Dodgers, at first, are the notable exception, even though the Phillies,
their opponents on April 9th, say they will forfeit rather than play on
the national day of mourning.

1971
On the last day of spring training, Chicago White Sox pitcher Joel Horlen
tears a cartilage while sliding into second base against the Chicago Cubs
in Scottsdale. He returns to Chicago for treatment, while the Sox travel to
California to open the season. Horlen is expected to be out for eight weeks,
but will pitch in only four. However, he will not notch his first win until
June 15.

1972
The Red Sox send recently acquired Mario Guerrero to KC for Tulsa pitcher
Jim Willoughby.

1974
In front of a crowd of 52,000 at Riverfront Stadium on Opening Day in
Cincinnati, in his first swing of the season, Hank Aaron hits a 3-run HR off
Jack Billingham as the Braves lose to the Reds 7-6 in 11 innings. It comes
on a 3-1 pitch. It is HR 714 for Aaron to tie him with the Babe and Hank
is greeted by Bowie Kuhn and Vice-president Gerald Ford. The Atlanta front
office had considered keeping 'Hammerin' Hank' on the bench during road games
so the slugger could try to equal the mark in front of the hometown fans,
but commissioner Bowie Kuhn ordered the Braves to put the outfielder into
the lineup for at least two of the three games against the Reds. The Reds,
trailing 6-2 in the 8th, get a 3-run homer from Tony Perez, tie it in the
9th on Pete Rose's RBI-double, and win it in the 11th when Rose scampers
home from second on Buzz Capra's wild pitch.

1977
The Angels trade Mike Easler to the Pirates for P Randy Sealy. Easler will
continue to bounce between the majors and minors, before sticking for good
in 1980.

1978
The Royals send slugger John Mayberry to the Blue Jays for an eventual
cash settlement.

1979
More than 20 umpires picket the ML season opener at Cincinnati. The game goes
ahead anyway on the newly installed Astroturf and the Giants beat the Reds
11-5. San Francisco scores 8 runs in the 2nd to knock out Tom Seaver. Vida
Blue is the winner with Mike Ivie hitting the game's only HR. Attendance
is 52,115.

1988
In a 10-6 victory over the Expos Kevin McReynolds and Darryl Strawberry
each hit a pair of homeruns helping the Mets to establish an Opening Day
record with six homers. The "Strawman's" second shot, estimated at 525 feet,
hits above the dome's light rim, and is believed to be the longest dinger
ever stroked at Olympic Stadium.

Toronto's DH, George Bell, the defending AL MVP, hits 3 homeruns as the
Blue Jays win 5-3 on Opening Day in Kansas City. Bell will go 5 for 5 in
Toronto's 2nd game of the season. Bell becomes the first player to hit
three homeruns on Opening Day. All of the homers are off Bret Saberhagen.

Texas knuckler Charlie Hough beats the Indians, 4-3, in the Rangers home
opener. It is his 13th straight win over the Tribe, dating back to April
6, 1984. Hough allows 3 solo HRs and gets an inning of relief from Mitch
Williams. O'Brien has a pair of HRs, including the game winner in the 8th
off Codiroti, in relief of Candiotti.

1989
Before 52,394 at Minneapolis, on the Twins Opening Day, 45-year-old Tommy John
ties a record by playing in 26 seasons. The Yankees beat the Twins 4-2. It
is John's 287th win putting him 19th overall in career wins. He allows the
Twins two runs in 7 innings of work, defeating Frank Viola. Roberto Kelly
is 4 for 4 for New York, including the game's only homer.

Barbara Bush, wife of the 41st president of the United States, becomes the
first First Lady to throw out the ceremonial first pitch at a major league
game. George's spouse and the mother of George W., the managing general
partner of the Rangers, does the honors on Opening Day at Arlington Stadium
prior to Texas' 4-0 victory over Detroit. Rangers DH Buddy Bell gets his
2,500th career hit, a single off Jack Morris.

1992
Chicago White Sox OF Bo Jackson undergoes hip-replacement surgery. He
suffered the injury in an NFL game in January of 1991.

1994
A total of 56,706 fans attend Opening Day making it the largest crowd ever
at new Yankee Stadium. The Bronx Bombers do not disappoint the big crowd
when Jimmy Key beats Kevin Brown and the Rangers, 5-3.

In the inaugural game played at Jacobs Field, the Indians retire Larry Doby's
uniform number 14. An usually reserved Doby becomes emotional speaking to
the Opening Day crowd. President Clinton throws out the first ball, and 'El
Presidente' Dennis Martinez throws the first pitch as the Indians defeat
the Mariners in 11 innings, 4-3. With Bob Feller, the author of the only
Opening Day no-hitter game in major league history in attendance, Mariner
southpaw Randy Johnson holds the Tribe hitless for the first seven innings.

Playing his 2,403rd game at first base, Indian infielder Eddie Murray
becomes baseball's all-time leader in games played at that position.

Prior to the Cubs' 12-8 Opening Day loss to the Mets at Wrigley Field,
Hillary Clinton becomes the second First Lady to throw out the ceremonial
first pitch of the baseball season. Bill's wife then joins Harry Caray in
the broadcast booth and sings "Take Me Out To The Ballgame" with the beloved
announcer during the seventh inning stretch. Cub rookie Tuffy Rhodes becomes
the first player to homer in his first three at-bats starting the season. The
three solo round-trippers are off Dwight 'Doc' Gooden, the winning pitcher
over Mike Morgan in the Mets 12-8 victory. Tuffy also adds a single.

Jacobs Field in Cleveland opens with the Indians defeating the Mariners,
4-3, in front of 41,259 fans. Seattle OF Eric Anthony hits the stadium's
first HR, while Eric Plunk notches the first victory in relief.

1997
Rookie Jason Dickson pitches a complete game shutout for the Angels,
beating the Red Sox, 2-0. Tim Wakefield takes the loss.

1998
Mark McGwire begins what will be a historic season homering in the fourth
consecutive game to tie Willie Mays' National League record (set in 1971)
for most consecutive games homering to start a season. Big Mac's three-run
blast in the sixth inning helps the Cardinals beat the Padres, 8-6

The Twins' Mike Morgan hurls the first 7 innings of Minnesota's 3-2 loss to
KC. In doing so, he ties a modern major league mark, shared by Bob Miller
and Ken Brett, by appearing in a game with his 10th team. In the game,
Minnesota OF Otis Nixon has his jaw broken while sliding into 2B when he
is kicked in the face by Royals SS Felix Martinez.

1999
In the first season opener ever played outside of the United States or
Canada, the Rockies defeat the NL defending champ Padres, 8-2, before an
overflow crowd of 27,104 in Monterrey, Mexico. OF Dante Bichette has 4 hits,
including a HR, and 4 RBIs for the winners. Local hero Vinny Castilla also
has 4 hits for the Rockies, while Darryl Kile picks up the victory.

2000
At Safeco Field, Darren Lewis plays right field in Boston's 2-0 victory
over Seattle. The 32-year-old outfielder is the 13th different Red Sox
player to start in that position on Opening Day for the past thirteen years.

The Rockies defeat the Braves, 5-3. Atlanta SS Rafael Furcal goes 2 for 4
in his major league debut, becoming the 1st big league player born in the
1980s. It will come out later that Furcal shaved 2 years off his birth year,
which was really 1978.

Ugueth Urbina strikes out the Dodgers in the top of the ninth on nine
pitches tying the ML record. Since it comes in the ninth inning of a 10-4
Expos loss before a small crowd, nobody seems to notice this particular feat.

At the Opener in Pittsburgh, Houston's Richard Hidalgo drives in all 5 runs,
4 on a grand slam, to lead the Astros to a 5-2 win. Shane Reynolds is the
winning pitcher. John Vader Wal has a 2-run pinch HR for the Bucs in the 7th,
his 14th career pinch HR.

2001
Throwing the earliest no-hitter in major league history, Hideo Nomo
blanks the Orioles 3-0, at Camden Yards in his first start in a Red Sox
uniform. Second baseman Mike Lansing makes an outstanding play with one out
in the ninth to preserve the Japanese-born hurler's second career no-hitter,
making Nomo the 4th pitcher in history to hurl one in both the NL and AL.

The Blue Jays outslug the Devil Rays, 11-8, as Carlos Delgado hits 3 HRs
and drives home 4 runs for Toronto.

The Indians double the White Sox, 8-4, before the first non-sellout in
6 years (since June 7, 1995) at Jacobs Field in Cleveland. It ends the
longest consecutive game sellout streak in major league history at 455 games
(a record which will be broken by the Boston Red Sox in 2008). To honor the
streak and the fans, the Indians retire a jersey with the number 455 on it.

Colorado Rockies Todd Helton and Larry Walker each drive home four runs to
back Denny Neagle who surrenders three runs in five innings. The Rockies beat
the St. Louis Cardinals, 13-9, scoring 10 earned runs off Andy Benes in 2.2
innings. Cardinals centerfielder, Jim Edmonds, hits a pair of homers to become
the first player to hit two fair balls into the upper deck at Coors Stadium.

An MRI on Cincinnati hurler Scott Williamson's right elbow reveals a torn
ulnar collateral ligament. He will undergo surgery and miss the 2001 season.

The Colorado Rockies send pitchers Mark Leiter and Mike DeJean, and IF Elvis
Pena to the Milwaukee Brewers for pitchers Juan Acevedo and Kane Davis,
and IF Jose Flores.

2002
The Rangers defeat the A's, 7-5, snapping Oakland's 20-game home winning
streak. The last time the A's lost at the Coliseum in the regular season
was last August 24th against the Tigers.

The Devil Rays defeat the Tigers, 9-2, for their 3rd straight victory. They
become the 7th team in ML history to start a season 3-0 after losing 100
games the previous year.

In a 3-2 Mets loss to Pittsburgh, LF Joe McEwing has a good first inning
hitting a leadoff HR and making an unassisted DP. He catches Armando Rios'
soft liner and tags Jason Kendall running from 2B.

The Mets send OF Gary Matthews Jr to the Orioles for minor league pitcher
John Bale.

According to newspaper reports, major league salaries for 2002 have surpassed
$2 billion, a record high.

2003
At Cincinnati's new Great American Ball Park, Sammy Sosa becomes the first
Latin American player and 18th overall to hit 500 career home runs. The
milestone is reached in the seventh inning as "Slammin' Sammy" drives a Scott
Sullivan 1-2 pitch into the right-field seats. The Reds win the game, 10-9.

The Coneheads stage a reunion at Shea Stadium as David Cone returns to
the mound after taking a year off and hurls an impressive five innings of
shutout ball in the Mets' 4-0 victory over the Expos. In memory of one of
the founders of this unique idea which started in 1988, the group hangs
a banner featuring a picture of Scott Saber, who was killed during the
terrorist attacks at the World Trade Center, smiling in his Conehead.

Brad Ausmus hits a 12th inning homer to give the Houston Astros a 6-5 win
over the St. Louis Cardinals. Jim Edmonds, with two homers and two doubles,
leads the Cards, while Albert Pujols also homers.

Seattle Mariners reliever Kazuhiro Sasaki ties a major league record with four
strikeouts in the 9th inning against the Texas Rangers. Sasaki strikes out
Todd Greene, Carl Everett (who reaches on a wild pitch), Mike Young and Mike
Lamb. Sasaki gets the save for Ryan Franklin in the 6-4 win over the Rangers.

2004
The Marlins and Padres exchange pitchers, with Ben Howard going to Florida
and Blaine Neal to SD.

The Expos acquire C Einar Diaz, P Justin Echols and cash from the
Rangers. Montreal sends C/IF Josh McKinley and P Chris Young to Texas.

The Mets trade OF Roger Cedeno to the Cardinals, getting C Chris Widger
and IF Wilson Delgado in return.

The Mariners get IF Jolbert Cabrera from the Dodgers for pitchers Aaron
Looper and Ryan Ketchner.

The Dodgers send OF Jason Romano to Tampa Bay in exchange for SS Antonio
Perez.

2005
The Detroit Tigers defeat the Kansas City Royals, 11-2, as Dmitri Young
drives in five runs while becoming the third player in history to hit
three homers on opening day. George Bell (1987) and Tuffy Rhodes (1994)
were the others. Jeremy Bonderman gets the win for Detroit, becoming the
youngest starter to win on opening day since Dwight Gooden in 1986.

The Washington Nationals fall to the Phillies, 8-4, in their first regular
season game since relocating from Montreal.

Rookie Clint Barmes' 2-run HR off Trevor Hoffman in the bottom of the 9th
gives the Rockies a 12-10 comeback win over the Padres. Aaron Miles has 5
hits for Colorado, including a pair of doubles.

The Mariners defeat the Twins, 5-1, as Seattle 1B Richie Sexson hits HRs
in his first 2 plate appearances for his new team, and drives home all 5
of their runs.

The Chicago Cubs pound out 23 hits as they cruise to a 16-6 victory over
the Arizona Diamondbacks. Chicago third baseman Aramis Ramirez, who inked
a four-year $42 million contract this morning, is 3 for 4 with a homer and
4 RBIs. Cubs pitcher Carlos Zambrano gets tossed in the fifth inning.

Seattle's Damian Moss and Ryan Christianson are among 38 players suspended
for violating baseball's minor league steroids policy, a group that includes
eight players from the Mariners' organization. Oakland's David Castillo is
suspended for 60 games, the penalty for a third violation. All the others
are suspended for 15 games, the ban given to first offenders.

2006
Kansas City voters approve a $250 million proposal to renovate Kauffman
Stadium. The facelift of the 35-year-old home of the Royals will include
the addition of dugout suites, new clubhouses, an exclusive restaurant, and
the replacement of the orange seats throughout the stadium with new blue ones.

The Padres are rained out at home for the first time since May 12, 1998,
a span of 635 consecutive home games played, mostly played at Qualcomm
Stadium. The postponement, just the 16th rainout in the franchise's 38-year
history, is the first washout at the club's new home, PETCO Park, which
opened two seasons ago.

2008
Carried by his momentum avoiding the pitch, J.R. Towels does a hand stand
at home plate after getting hit above the knee during the second inning in
Houston's 4-3 win over the Cubs at Wrigley Field. The Astros catcher's fourth
inning two-run homer is accomplished with the backstop standing on his feet.

Before their home opener, the Blue Jays announce reaching agreements with
outfielder Alex Rios (.297, 24, 85) and second baseman Aaron Hill (.291,
17, 78). The 26-year-old Toronto fly-catcher will earn nearly $70 million
dollars over the next seven years, the second richest deal in franchise
history, and the club's newly signed infielder, also 26, inks a four-year
contract worth $12 million.

With fans chanting "Robbie, Robbie" prior to the home opener against the
Red Sox, the Blue Jays honor Roberto Alomar by inducting their former
all-star second baseman into Toronto's Level of Excellence. The dramatic
pre-game ceremony features the honoree being reveled at second base with
a spotlight after a video montage of his career highlights is played in a
darkened Rogers Centre.

2012
Joey Votto and the Reds agree to the longest guaranteed contract in major
league history, a $251.5 million 12-year deal. The dollar amount, second
only to A-Rod's $275 million and $252 million pacts with the Rangers and
Yankees, easily surpasses Ken Griffey Jr's $116.5 million nine-year signing
in 2000 as the richest in franchise history.

2014
Charlie Blackmon ties a team record established by Andres Galarraga in 1995,
collecting six hits in the Rockies' 12-2 rout of Arizona in the team's home
opener at Coors Field. The 27-year-old platoon outfielder is the first
major leaguer to collect three doubles, two singles and a homerun in a
major league game.

2016
The Dodgers hand the Padres the worst Opening Day shutout loss since at least
1913, and most likely in the history of the game, blanking the Friars at
Petco Park, 15-0. The contest marked the managerial debut of both skippers,
with LA's Dave Roberts and San Diego’s Padres Andy Green both piloting
their first major league game.

Although he limits the Rangers to just one hit, Mariner right-hander Felix
Hernandez loses for the first time on Opening Day, snapping a streak of
six victories to start his team’s season. Seattle had the opportunity to
become the first franchise in modern baseball history to win ten consecutive
season openers, but sloppy defense allows three runs in the fifth inning
of the club's 3-2 defeat to Texas at Globe Life Park.

Trevor Story becomes the first player to hit two home runs in his first
regular season game on Opening Day, and the fifth rookie to accomplish the
feat in his major league debut. The 23 year-old Rockies shortstop hit both
round-trippers off Diamondbacks’ ace Zack Greinke, a three-run home run
in the third and a solo shot in the following frame of the team’s 10-5
victory over Arizona at Chase Field.

2017
Stephen Piscotty's dangerous journey around the base paths ends when he
crosses the plate in the bottom of the fifth inning, scoring the Cardinals'
only run in the team's 2-1 loss to the Cubs at Busch Stadium. After reaching
first as the result of being hit by a pitch, the Redbird outfielder gets
nailed in the elbow by catcher Wilson Contreras's throw attempting to take
second on a wild pitch and then, sliding into home plate, he is struck on
the helmet with an errant throw by second baseman Javier Baez.

