Apr 5

1913
An exhibition game with the newly christened Yankees opens Ebbets Field.
25,000 are on hand to watch Nap Rucker beat the American Leaguers, 3-2. The
first HR is hit by Brooklyn's Casey Stengel, who legs out an inside-the-parker
in the 1st. Jake Daubert legs out another round tripper in the 2nd. The
Yanks suffer a loss when Zack Wheat spikes starting SS Claud Derrick on his
throwing hand. Derrick will play just 7 games before New York ships him to
Sacramento (PCL).

In Philadelphia, the Athletics score 2 in the 1st against the Phillies in
their city series 5th game. Down 4-0 in the series, the Phils score 2 in
the bottom of the 9th to tie the score and the game ends that way after
18 innings.

1915
In the final match of a 3-game series against the Memphis Turtles (Southern
Association), the Red Sox win 10-5 to sweep. Babe Ruth pitches the final 5
innings in relief. The Sox are traveling north from their spring training
camp in Hot Springs, Arkansas.

1921
In an exhibition game against the Hartford Senators, Columbia University's
Lou Gehrig is 2 for 2 with two tremendous homers. Hartford wins, 4-3,
and will later sign Lou for what will be a 12-game stint with the team.

1923
Reflecting the strength of corporate baseball teams, an article (noted
by Carlos Bauer) in today's Beloit Daily News reports that "Beloit Fairy
pitchers (Hippo) Vaughn, Cashion, (Win) Noyes, (Zip) Zabel, and Dave
Davenport (all ex-major leaguers) leave Beloit today for Hot Springs,
Arkansas, where they will take a week-long conditioning drill before being
joined by the remainder of the factory squad, due to leave for the southland
April 11. Manager Chubb will accompany the pitchers to Hot Springs, and will
be on hand to pray for less rain at that resort than has been the portion
of the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Boston Red Sox - which clubs have been
wallowing through three weeks of soggy weather there."

1925
Babe Ruth collapses at a railroad station in Asheville, North Carolina. The
"bellyache heard round the world," so dubbed when a writer suggests that the
illness was caused by a hot dog and soda binge, will require hospitalization
and an operation keeping the Yankees slugger out of the line-up until May.

1934
Babe Ruth is to be sponsored by Quaker Oats to do three 15-minute broadcasts a
week over NBC. The total of $39,000 for 13 weeks is $4,000 more than Ruth's
baseball salary.

Reds president Larry MacPhail hires Red Barber to broadcast the team games
on WSAL. The not-so-old "Ol' Redhead" will spend the first four years of
his Hall of Fame broadcasting career in Cincinnati calling games from the
stands of Crosley Field.

Veteran Frank Shellenback of the Hollywood Sheiks beats Oakland, 6-3,
allowing no earned runs to notch his 262nd PCL victory. The spitball-knuckler
breaks the record set by Spider Baum in 1920: Baum is now secretary
of the Sheiks. Shellenback will go on to post a 295-178 minor league
record. Shellenback pitched only two seasons in the majors. At the age of 18
he debuted with the Chicago White Sox and recorded a slightly better than
league average 2.66 e.r.a. in 183 innings. In 1919 he pitched poorly (1-3,
5.14) for the team that would become known as The Black Sox. Normally, a
pitcher as young as Shellenback would have received an opportunity to revive
his major league career. But the ban on spitballs terminated Shellenback's
big league prospects. However, his son, Jim Shellenback, would spend nine
seasons in the majors as a journeyman pitcher.

1936
In Fayettville, North Carolina 5000 turn out to see Babe Ruth and the Braves
defeat NC State, 6-2. All balls hit into the crowd are kept as souvenirs
and by the time the last ball is hit into the crowd 12 dozen balls have
been used up.

1940
At Greensboro, North Carolina a game between the Cincinnati Reds and Boston
Red Sox is called at the end of 8 innings because the supply of balls is
exhausted. The Reds win 12-10. The same happened to the two teams on April 6,
1939 in Florence, South Carolina.

1942
The season will start with Lou Boudreau of Cleveland, Mel Ott of the Giants
and Hans Lobert of the Phillies as new managers.

1953
In the 6th inning of a PCL game against Hollywood, San Diego Padres OF
Herb Gorman suffers a heart attack and dies on the way to the hospital. He
was 2 for 2, both doubles, in the game before suffering the fatal blood
clot. Gorman was 1 for 1 last year with the St. Louis Cards. The 2nd game
of the DH is postponed (as noted by Joey Beretta).

1957
The Phillies trade five players - Ron Negray, Tim Harkness, Elmer Valo,
Mel Geho and Ben Flowers (the player to be named later) - and send $75,000
to the Dodgers to obtain much touted Cuban infielder Chico Fernandez.
Fernandez will be the first black player for the Phils when he plays on the
16th, five days before ex-Negro Leaguer John Kennedy makes his appearance
for the Phils. Philadelphia's new shortstop plays three seasons in the
City of Brotherly Love, batting just .242, before being traded to the
Tigers. Fernandez will enjoy his best season with the Detroit Tigers in
1961, when he hits a career-best 20 homeruns (his only season with more
than six homers).

1958
Shigeo Nagashima, a rookie phenom, makes his pro debut with the Yomiuri
Giants. He is fanned 4 times, but will go on to win the Central League
batting title and have one of the distinguished careers in Japanese baseball.

1960
The Giants purchase 1B Dale Long from the Cubs.

1966
Don Larsen, the last active major leaguer who played for the Browns, is
released by the Orioles. As a rookie in 1953, the Michigan City, Indiana
native posted a 7-12 record for the hapless franchise which lost 100 games
in its final season in St. Louis.

1971
With 45,000 fans on hand at RFK Stadium, the Senators beat the Oakland
A's, 8-0, behind the pitching of Dick Bosman who throws a complete
game 6-hitter. The loser is Vida Blue, who allows 4 runs in less than 3
innings. This will be the last Opening Day in Washington.

In 45 degree weather, the Reds play their first opener at Riverfront Stadium,
dropping a 7-4 decision to the Braves. The Reds make 6 errors, 3 by 3B Woody
Woodward. The win goes to 6' 6" reliever Cecil Upshaw who missed last season
after almost losing the ring finger on his pitching hand. Upshaw was dunking
a basketball and his hand got entangled in the net causing the injury.

Decked out in their new, predominantly orange uniforms, the Houston Astros
open at home with a 5-2 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers. Larry Dierker
is the winner over Bill Singer. Astro outfielders Cesar Geronimo and Jimmy
Wynn make great throws to cut down LA rallies.

1972
The season opener between the Astros and Reds is canceled due to the player
strike which started on April 1. It marks the first time in major league
history Opening Day is delayed and 86 games will be lost before the labor
dispute is settled.

The Mets trade outfielder Ken Singleton and infielders Tim Foli and Mike
Jorgensen to the Expos in exchange for 28-year-old all-star right fielder
Rusty Staub. The 'Le Grand Orange' will miss most of the season due to
injuries, but will play a major role in New York's 'Ya Gotta Believe'
pennant-winning team in 1973.

1973
In the cold, windy ML Opener in Cincinnati, the Giants beat the Reds,
4-1. Juan Marichal is the winner over Don Gullett. Despite the weather
51,579 are on hand.

The New York Yankees trade SS Frank Baker to the Orioles for INF Tom Matchick.

1974
Streakers and strippers highlight the Opening Day game at Chicago's Comiskey
Park. The Angels beat the White Sox 8-2. Despite handing out 10 walks,
Nolan Ryan is the winner over Wilbur Wood, with help from Leron Stanton,
who homers. For Wood, it is the first of his AL high 42 starts, the 3rd of
4 years in a row the knuckler will lead in that category.

1975
The Phillies trade OF Bill Robinson to the Pirates for P Wayne Simpson.

1977
The White Sox trade SS Bucky Dent to the Yankees for OF Oscar Gamble,
and minor league pitchers LaMarr Hoyt and Bob Polinsky, and an estimated
$200,000. Gamble will have a fine season in Chicago and Hoyt will blossom
into the ace of the White Sox staff in the early 1980's.

1979
At Yankee Stadium 52,719 see Milwaukee jump on Ron Guidry for 4 runs in the
6th inning and beat New York 5-1. It's the most runs the Cy Young winner has
allowed since 1977. The Yanks get singles from their first three hitters,
but manage to score just one run in the first off Mike Caldwell.

1982
Forty-three-year-old Jim Kaat pitches one inning for the Cardinals in a
season-opening 14-3 rout of the Astros, setting a new ML record for pitchers
by playing in his 24th consecutive season.

After astronauts Joe Engle and Richard Truly toss out the first ball at
Riverfront Stadium, the Reds open with a 3-2 loss to the Cubs, called after
8 innings on account of rain.

1983
On Opening Day Tom Seaver, making his first appearance with the Mets since
1977, combines with Doug Sisk to blank the Phillies on 5 hits at Shea
Stadium, 2-0. 'Tom Terrific', who will go on to extend the record to 16,
ties Walter Johnson's major league mark with his 14th Opening Day assignment.

At Seattle, the Mariners open with a 5-4 win over the Yankees. Gaylord
Perry makes his 9th Opening Day start, but the win goes to reliever Bryan
Clark. Richie Zisk, a Yankee Opening Day nemesis, hits a two-run homer in
Seattle's 4-run 3rd inning to chase Ron Guidry. New York chases Perry in
the 6th with back-to back homers by Dave Winfield and Steve Kemp. Steve
Henderson scores the winner in the 7th when he hits his 3rd single, steals
second, takes 3rd on a grounder and scores on a sac fly.

1986
Major League Baseball Commissioner Peter Ueberroth proposes a drug testing
program in which ML players would be tested for drugs no more than 4 times
a year from March to October. Cocaine, marijuana, heroin and morphine would
be included, but not amphetamines. There would be no penalty for first-time
positive testing.

1988
With a 6-3 opening night victory over the Padres, Houston wins its 2,000th
game in franchise history. The Astros score five runs in the bottom of the
eighth inning making starter Mike Scott the winning pitcher.

Before 55,802 at Yankee Stadium, the Yankees score 6 runs off Frank Viola
in 5 innings to top the Twins, 8-0. Rick Rhoden allows 3 hits in 9 innings
for the win. Roberto Kelly and Willie Randolph each have three hits, while
Jim Pagliarulo and Rickey Henderson belt homers.

1993
At Camden Yards William Jefferson Clinton becomes the first U.S. president
to successfully throw the first pitch of the season from the pitcher's
mound. Orioles starter Rick Sutcliffe doesn't fare as well when the Birds
lose to the Rangers, 7-4.

At Shea Stadium the Rockies lose their National League debut to the Mets,
3-0. Dwight 'Doc' Gooden pitches a four-hit complete game for the victory.
Andres Galarraga gets a pair of hits for Colorado but is thrown out in
the 9th trying to stretch a single. David Nied takes the loss, giving up
a homer to Bobby Bonilla.

In front of 42,334 fans at Joe Robbie Stadium in Miami, the Florida Marlins,
making their major league debut, defeat the Dodgers, 6-3. Joe DiMaggio
throws out the ceremonial first pitch, and the team retires uniform number
5 in tribute to Carl Barger, their late president. Jeff Conine goes 4 for
4 while Charlie Hough gets the win.

On Opening Day, Greg Maddux, signed as a free agent by Atlanta in the
offseason, allows no runs and scatters five hits to his former team over 8
1/3 innings. Mike Stanton gets the last two out in the Braves, 1-0 victory
over the Cubs at Wrigley Field. Hillary Clinton throws out the first ball.

Eric Fox, inserted into the game as a late-inning defensive replacement,
hits a grand-slam homerun in the bottom of the eighth inning giving the
A's a 9-4 Opening Day victory before 43,370 fans at Oakland-Alameda County
Coliseum. It will be the outfielder's only homer of the season.

1995
The Yankees obtain P John Wetteland from the Expos in exchange for minor
league OF Fernando Seguignol, a player to be named and cash considerations.

The Royals trade OF Brian McRae to the Cubs in exchange for pitchers Derek
Wallace and Geno Morones.

The Expos trade their ace, Ken Hill (16-5), to the Cardinals for pitchers
Bryan Eversgerd and Kirk Bollinger, and OF Darond Stovall.

1997
At Olympic Stadium the Rockies set a franchise record with seven home runs,
including three by Larry Walker, who is pulled from game in the eighth inning
by Rockies manager Don Baylor. The Colorado skipper doesn't want to run up
the score against the Expos with his team ahead 15-1. The final score is 15-3.

Sterling Hitchcock and Trevor Hoffman combine to 1-hit the Phillies in
posting a 4-1 victory. Hitchcock allows only a double to Rico Brogna in 8
innings as the 1st-place Pods win for the 4th time in 5 games.

Brian Hunter has 4 hits and 3 stolen bases as Detroit outlasts the White
Sox, 15-12. Bobby Higginson and Damion Easley each hit 3-run HRs. The Sox
Chris Snopek, filling in at 3B for Robin Ventura, out with a broken ankle,
has three hits but makes his 3rd E in 4 games.

1998
The Arizona Diamondbacks win their first game in franchise history, 3-2,
over the Giants. Andy Benes gets the win for the 1-5 D'backs.

In a duel of aces, Philadelphia's Curt Schilling strikes out 15 to beat
Greg Maddux, 2-1.

1999
OF Juan Encarnacion homers on the first pitch of the game and P Brian
Moehler takes a no-hitter into the 7th inning as the Tigers defeat the
Rangers, 11-5. Texas P Mike Morgan sets a major league record by appearing
in a game for his 11th team. And Detroit P Masao Kida becomes the first
Tokyo-born player to appear in a big league game when he pitches the 8th
inning in relief.

OF Albert Belle hits a 3-run homer in his Baltimore debut, and Cal Ripken
Jr has to leave the game with a back injury, as the Orioles defeat the
Devil Rays, 10-7. Ripken will not play tomorrow, marking the first time in
17 years that he is forced to miss a game because of an injury. Prior to
today's game, Ripken's father is honored with his #7 painted into the 3rd
base coach's box. A former Oriole manager and coach, Ripken Sr died of lung
cancer on March 25 at age 63. Following the game, Baltimore P Doug Johns
is arrested on drunk driving and marijuana possession charges.

The Giants defeat the Reds, 11-8, on third baseman Charlie Hayes' go-ahead
three-run homer in the 8th inning. Hayes replaced starter Bill Mueller, who
broke his toe after being hit by a Brett Tomko pitch as the second batter up
in the game. SF OF Bobby Bonds sets an NL record by receiving his 290th career
intentional walk in the 4th inning. The old record was held by Hank Aaron.

Dodgers OF Raul Mondesi hits a 2-out, 3-run HR in the bottom of the 9th
to tie the score, then hits a 2-out, 2-run homer in the last of the 11th
to win the game as LA defeats Arizona, 8-6. Mondesi drives in a total of
6 runs as Davey Johnson wins his managerial debut with the Dodgers.

The Expos defeat the Pirates, 9-2, behind the pitching of Dustin
Hermanson. Jason Phillips makes his major league debut in the 6th inning
for Pittsburgh and sees his first pitch hit over the centerfield wall for
a HR by C Chris Widger.

In the Opener at Anaheim, the Angels rally to beat the Indians, 6-5. Salmon
and Anderson hit homers on consecutive pitches off Jaret Wright in the
4th. But Mo Vaughn, signed to a team record-high contract as a free agent
during the off-season, tumbles into the Cleveland dugout while chasing a foul
ball and severely sprains his ankle. Mo plays five innings before leaving
but he'll miss 15 days. The injury will linger causing him problems at the
plate and, he says later, causing the ligament damage that will curtail
his 2000 season.

2000
The Diamondbacks bite the Phillies, 11-3, with Mike Morgan picking up
the save. Arizona is his 12th major league team, an ML record (though
Bobo Newsom switched teams more often). He also becomes the 25th player,
and 9th pitcher, to appear in 4 decades. Earlier today, Jesse Orosco of
the Cardinals became the 24th player, and 8th pitcher, to do so. (See also
Elmer Valo, September 30, 1939).

The Reds sign Ron Villone, released 3 days ago by the Indians.

2001
Paul O'Neill hits a 1st inning HR off Dan Reichert for the only run in the
Yankees' 1-0 win over the Orioles. Mike Mussina (7 2/3 IP) is the winner. It
is only the 2nd time in team history that the Yankees win a 1-0 game with
a 1st inning HR. Previously, it was done in 1941, with the HR by Phil Rizzuto.

Tom Goodwin and Mark Grudzielanek homer to lead off the game for the Dodgers,
and it is the margin of victory in the 7-5 win over Arizona.

2002
The Giants defeat the Padres, 3-1 in 10 innings on Barry Bonds' 5th HR of
the year. In doing so, Bonds ties the mark for most HRs in the 1st 4 games
of the season set by Lou Brock in 1967.

Adam Ashby and Omar Daal combine to hold the Rockies to one hit, a single
by Todd Zeile, in shutting out Colorado by a score of 9-0.

At Wrigley Field, the Pittsburgh Pirates nip the Cubs, 2-1. Dave Williams
pitches 6 innings for the Bucs, leaving after Sammy Sosa hits a homer that
bounces back onto the field. A new addition to Wrigley is a green tennis
wind screen the Cubs erected on the fence lining the back of the bleachers
in left field to block views from the rooftops on Sheffield and Waveland
avenues. This is the latest skirmish in the war between the Cubs and bar
owners who have put up roof top venues. FX Reprographics had 22 people
at $113 apiece in the bleachers atop Michael Kaufman's skinny building on
the left-field line on Waveland. Kaufman and the other 10 rooftop owners
disagree that they are stealing the Cubs' product.

The Mets acquire RP Scott Strickland from the Expos in exchange for pitchers
Bruce Chen and Dickey Gonzales, and IF Luis Figueroa. The Mets also receive
minor leaguers Matt Watson and Philip Seibel.

2003
The Royals become the first major league team to begin the season 5-0 after
losing 100 games the prior year. Runelvys Hernandez, the winner of a coin
toss making him the Opening Day starter, wins his second game when he allows
two hits in seven innings beating the Indians, 2-1.

To show support for the U.S. troops in Iraq, the White Sox announce all
active military members showing a military ID will be given free admission
to most home games at U.S. Cellular Field. The free passes will not be
available during the Cubs series scheduled for June.

The Phillies pound the unbeaten Pirates, 16-1, as Jimmy Rollins gets 5 hits -
including 3 doubles - and scores 4 runs.

The Marlins pound out 23 hits in defeating the Braves, 17-1. Greg Maddux
is pounded for 3 homers and 9 runs in 2 innings.

In a 9-7 loss to the Cubs, Reds star CF Ken Griffey Jr dislocates his
shoulder trying to make a diving catch.

2004
Braves' general manager John Schuerholz announces the team has exercised
the option to retain Bobby Cox as the team's manager through the 2005
season. The 62-year-old skipper, ninth all-time in managerial wins with
1,906, has won a record 12-consecutive divisional titles.

The Brewers defeat the Cardinals, 8-6, on Opening Day in St. Louis. President
George Bush throws out the first ball, marking the first time a president
performs the honor in St. Louis.

Behind the pitching of Kerry Wood, the Cubs beat the Reds, 7-4, in
Cincinnati. Wood is the first Cub pitcher to win back-to-back openers since
Claude Passeau in 1941-42.

Barry Bonds hits a 3-run homer off Roy Oswalt to tie the Astros 4-4, and
J.T. Snow hits a sac fly in the 9th to win, 5-4. Bonds is 3 for 3 with
2 doubles to go with his 659th career homer. His 3 extra base hits puts
him ahead of Lou Gehrig into 5th on the career extra base hits list and,
with 1 walk, he passes Ted Williams for 2nd on career walks.

The A's confirmed that 2B Mark Ellis has a torn labrum and will have to
miss the entire 2004 season.

2005
The Nationals, formerly known as the Expos, lose their inaugural season
opener bowing to the Phillies, 8-4. The franchise, which played its initial
36 years in Montreal, becomes the first team to represent the nation's capital
since the Senators left Washington to become the Texas Rangers in 1971.

Johan Santana's streak of 22 straight starts of allowing three or fewer
runs comes to an end when the southpaw gets the victory in the Twins' 8-4
win over Seattle at Safeco Field. Last season's Cy Young Award winner has
the second longest streak of giving fewer than four runs in consecutive
outings, trailing only Dwight Gooden's 24 in 1985.

2006
Sluggerrr, the Royals' Mascot, celebrates his tenth birthday at Kauffman
Stadium. In the offseason, the nearly seven-foot tall lion with a crown
built into his skull, is very active in the Kansas City community visiting
local schools encouraging youngsters to be good students and good citizens.

The Tigers defeat the Royals, 14-3. C Ivan Rodriguez leads the Detroit attack
with 5 hits, including 3 doubles and a HR, while CF Curtis Granderson adds
a HR. Tiger P Jeremy Bonderman allows a run in 6 2/3 IP. The Tigers will
win again tomorrow and set a record for the most homeruns (15) in the first
three games of a season.

Paced by Torii Hunter's 4 hits, including a grand slam, and 6 RBI, the Twins
roll to a 13-4 win over the Angels. Shannon Stewart and Luis Rodriguez also
homer to back Brad Radke's 6 innings pitched to qualify for the win.

The A's use a five-run 8th to beat the visiting Yankees, 9-4. Yankees RF
Gary Sheffield hits his 450th career HR and passes Frank Thomas and Jeff
Bagwell into 28th place on the all time HR list. Thomas, now playing for
the A's, has some satisfaction, collecting 3 RBI.

Dwight Gooden is sentenced to a year + a day in prison for violating his
probation by using cocaine.

In the Reds 8-6 victory over the Cubs, Ken Griffey Jr hits the 537th HR of
his career to move past Mickey Mantle into 12th position on the all-time
list. Winning pitcher Bronson Arroyo clubs his first ML homer, off Glendon
Rusch. He'll hit another off Rusch in two weeks.

The Phils Jimmy Rollins has a single in a 4-3 loss to the Cards to run his
consecutive game hit streak to 38. Skip Schumaker hits his first ML HR and
Albert Pujols also homers.

2009
Jordan Schafer becomes the tenth Brave in franchise history and the 99th
overall player to hit a homerun in his first major league at-bat. The
22-year-old rookie center fielder, who never played in a level higher than
Double A, goes deep off Philadelphia's Opening Day starter, Brett Myers,
in the second inning at Citizens Bank Park.

The Brewers purchase Chris Duffy from the minors.

2010
Receiving mostly cheers from the standing-room-only crowd at Nationals
Stadium, President Barack Obama, wearing a White Sox cap and a Nats jacket,
continues a 100-year tradition when he throws the ceremonial first pitch prior
to Washington's home opener against Philadelphia. The Commander-in-Chief's
toss is high and wide, but third baseman Ryan Zimmerman is able to make a
lunging grab of the ball.

Jason Heywood becomes the eleventh Braves player in franchise history to
homer in his first major league at-bat. The much touted 20-year-old rookie,
with the hometown fans chanting, "Let's go, Heyward!", hits a three-run
homer in the first inning off Chicago's Carlos Zambrano at Turner Field.

The Red Sox and their ace, Josh Beckett, come to terms on a $68 million
four-year contract extension. The agreement keeps the team's Opening Day
starter in Boston along with recent free agent acquisition John Lackey,
giving the club a strong 1-2 punch at the top of their rotation for the
next five years.

Matt Stairs plays for his twelfth major league organization equaling Deacon
McGuire's record (1884 to 1912) for the most teams ever played with by a
position player. The 18-year veteran, who also joins pitchers Mike Morgan
and Ron Villone for being on a dozen different clubs, flies out in a
pinch-hitting role for the Padres in a 6-3 loss to Arizona at Chase Field.

2011
Nine pitchers each contribute a hitless inning apiece when the High Desert
Mavericks (Adelanto, California) no-hit the local Victor Valley Community
College Rams, 12-0. Hurlers James Gillheeny, Tim Boyce, Nick Czyz, Austin
Hudson, Johnathan Hesketh, Ogui Diaz, Jose Jimenez, John Housey and Chris
Kirkland share the equal workload for the California League's Class A -
Advanced affiliate of the Mariners.

2012
J.P. Arencibia's three-run homer in the 16th inning, giving the Blue Jays
an eventual 7-4 victory over Cleveland, ends the longest opening-day game in
major league history. The Progressive Field marathon surpasses the 15-inning
Opening Day contests between Cleveland and Detroit in 1960 and Philadelphia
and Washington in 1926.

Cooper Stone helps to unveil the statue depicting him and his dad holding
hands and having a conversation wearing their baseball caps in front of a
gate at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington. The inscription on the sculpture,
created by Bruce Greene, reads "In memory of Shannon Stone and dedicated
to all fans who love the game" in tribute to his father, who died last
season at the stadium attending a game with his six-year-old son when he
flipped over the railing and fell twenty feet, onto the concrete behind the
out-of-town scoreboard in left field, after reaching for a ball thrown into
the stands by Texas outfielder Josh Hamilton.

2014
Ike Davis becomes the second player in franchise history to deliver a
pinch-hit walk-off grand-slam when he goes deep off J.J. Hoover in New
York's 6-3 victory over Cincinnati at Citi Field. The only other Met to
accomplished the feat is the team's current third base coach Tim Tuefel, who
went yard off the bench with the bases loaded in 1986 against Philadelphia.

2015
The day before the season begins, A.J. Preller continues his makeover of
the Padres, acquiring All-Star closer Craig Kimbrel and outfielder Melvin
Upton Jr. from the Braves for outfielders Carlos Quentin and Cameron Maybin,
minor league right-hander Matt Wisler, outfield prospect Jordan Paroubeck,
and the 41st overall draft pick. The San Diego GM increases the club's
payroll significantly to pull off the stunning deal, with most of the cost
involving taking on the remaining $46.35 million still owed Upton, who will
now join his brother B.J. as a teammate.

2016
For the first time in more than six decades, the Cubs and White Sox start
the same season with two victories and no losses. The last time both Chicago
teams were undefeated after two games occurred in 1951, two seasons before
Ernie Banks played his rookie year.

2018
With a second-inning double against the Oakland Athletics, Adrian Beltre
became the all-time leader in hits by a player from Latin America. Beltre,
from the Dominican Republic, passed Rod Carew of Panama with the 3,054th
hit in his career.

