Apr 7

1908
The St. Louis clubs play a benefit game, raising $5,000 for the beleaguered
Chris Von der Ahe.

1918
In the A.M. game of a doubleheader in Los Angeles Doc Crandall's no-hit
bid against Salt Lake City (Pacific Coast League) is spoiled with 2 outs
in the 9th by Crandall's brother Karl, but Los Angeles wins, 14-0.

1925
In an exhibition game the Yankees whip the Dodgers 16-9 but the headlines
are about the Babe. Ruth collapses in the railroad station in Asheville,
North Carolina and winds up in New York's St. Vincent Hospital. He'll undergo
an operation for an ulcer on April 17th and will be in bed till May 26th.

During an exhibition game A's long-ball-hitting first baseman Joe Hauser is
standing near 1B when his knee suddenly collapses and the kneecap shatters. He
is disabled for the season. His other knee will abruptly give out in 1934
when he rounds 3B after hitting a homer for the Minneapolis Millers.

1931
The San Francisco Seals open their new Seals Stadium with an 8-0 win over
Portland. The new stadium seats 18,500.

1946
In a 10-7 exhibition loss to the Cubs, Browns pitcher Bob Muncrief breaks
his toe when hit by a line drive off the bat of Al Glossup. Muncrief, 13-4
in 1945, will reverse it to 3-12 this season. Vern Stephens, who just jumped
back from the Mexican League, hits a 3-run homer. The Browns also announce
the release of one-time NL star Ducky Medwick.

1948
The Phillies trade infielder Ralph LaPointe and give the Cardinals $30,000
to obtain first baseman Dick Sisler. The son of Hall of Famer George Sisler
will hit .287 during his four-year tenure in Philadelphia and will play a
pivotal role in the team's 1950 National League championship.

1956
In an exhibition match, the Detroit Tigers are outhit but down Houston
(Texas League), 10-1, as Al Kaline hits two grand slams.

Call it the lemonfruit league. Jim Lemon of the Washington Senators
matches Kaline with 8 RBIs in a 16-12 win over the Reds in grapefruit
league play. He gets walked his first three times up, then hits a double,
triple and grand slam.

1958
The Dodgers erect a 42-foot screen in LF at the Los Angeles Coliseum to
cut down on HRs since it is only 250 feet down the line.

1959
In an effort to protect its players Little League moves its pitcher's mound
2 feet back, from 44 to 46.

1963
A public stock offering of 115,000 shares for the Milwaukee Braves is
withdrawn after only 13,000 shares are sold to 1,600 new investors.

1969
After throwing the first two pitches of the season, Don Drysdale finds
himself and his team trailing the Reds, 2-0. The L.A. right-hander, after
giving up back-to-back homers to Pete Rose and Bobby Tolan, settles down
and the Dodgers comeback to win the game, 3-2. Bill Singer of the Dodgers
is credited with the first official save. The Dodgers score once in the
2nd and twice in the 3rd off Gary Nolan. Rose and Tolan will again hit
consecutive homers to open a game in August.

St. Louis drops their home opener to the Pirates 6-2 in 14 innings.

The Expos get SS Bobby Wine from the Phils as a replacement for P Larry
Jackson, who retired instead of going to Montreal in the expansion draft. Wine
will play regularly for 3 years.

At RFK Stadium 45,000 fans, including President Richard Nixon, look on as
Ted Williams makes his managerial debut for the Senators. The Yanks spoil
it, winning 8-4, pinning the loss on Camilo Pascual, and routing him in the
third inning with back-to-back homers by Jerry Kenney and Bobby Murcer. Mel
Stottlemyre wins his 3rd straight Opening Day complete game despite giving
up 14 hits. Stottlemyre will notch 5 wins this month, just the 2nd pitcher
(Bob Lemon, 1955) in history to record 5 wins in April. Vida Blue, in 1972,
will be the first to win 6. In starting Kenney, Roy White and Bill Robinson,
New York fields the first all-African-American outfield in team history. By
mid-season, Kenney will switch from centerfield to third base while Murcer
moves from third to righfield (and, eventually, to centerfield).

1970
In front of 37,237 enthusiastic fans at County Stadium, the team formerly
known as the Seattle Pilots, play their first game as the Brewers. Lew
Krausse is routed by the Angels as Andy Messersmith four-hits Milwaukee, 12-0.

After eight consecutive Opening Day defeats, the Mets finally win the first
game of the season by beating the Pirates at Forbes Field in 11 innings,
5-3. New York becomes the first team to have won a World Series (1969)
before prevailing in a season debut.

OF Brant Alyea has 7 RBIs - a ML record for opening day - on 2 homers and
2 singles, to back Jim Perry as the Twins win their opener, 12-0, against
the White Sox. Alyea will have 21 RBI in his first 12 games; in Perry's
first 4 starts Alyea will drive in 19 runs.

At Yankee Stadium, Mel Stottlemyre makes his 4th straight Opening Day start
joining Lefty Gomez and Jack Chesbro as the only Yankee hurlers to do so. The
Red Sox counter with newly acquired Gary Peters, who allowed no earned runs
in 32 spring training innings. Boston jumps out to a 4-0 lead in 5 innings,
but the Yanks score 3 in the 6th to chase Peters. But that's all the scoring
as Boston wins, 4-3.

At LA, Gary Nolan of the Reds defeats the Dodgers, 4-0, on a 2-hitter. Both
hits are by Willie Crawford, in the 4th and 9th.

Pitcher Dave McNally strikes out 13 in nine innings as the Baltimore
Orioles rip the Indians, 8-2, on Opening Day at Cleveland Stadium. Paul
Blair leads the offensive attack, driving in a pair of runs and scoring
three times. McNally holds the Indians to two runs on four hits and three
walks to get the win. Rookie Roy Foster belts a two-run homerun to account
for Cleveland's only runs.

1971
The dismissal of Curt Flood's suit against baseball is upheld by a 3-judge
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

1973
The Indians set an Opening Day American League attendance mark (and a
day-game record). A crowd of 74,420 watch Gaylord Perry go the distance
when the Tribe trim the Tigers at Cleveland Stadium, 2-1. Mickey Lolich is
the losing pitcher as Chris Chambliss and Mickey Stanley match homers.

1975
The Big Red Machine opens against the Dodgers in Cincinnati and goes 14
innings before George Foster's infield hit scores Cesar Geronimo with the
winner, 2-1. Pat Darcy is the winner over Charlie Hough.

1976
At Aloha Stadium in Hawaii a controversy arises about metal cleats prior
to a PCL game with Tacoma. Despite the ban on the cleats in the stadium,
Tacoma P Bill Butler insists on wearing them and stadium officials switch
off the lights during warm-up. Thirty minutes to game-time, umpire Bill
Lawton awards a forfeit to Tacoma since the home team is responsible for
playing conditions. The PCL will uphold the forfeit, but minor league prexy
Bobby Bragan will overrule it (according to historian Rich Marazzi).

1977
After a lengthy snow delay on Opening Day in Toronto at a football field
called Exhibition Stadium, Doug Ault, acquired in the expansion draft,
hits two homeruns in his first two at-bats in a Blue Jay uniform. The first
baseman tags Ken Brett for a solo shot in the first and then hits a two-run
homer in the third off Brett before 44,649 freezing fans. The first baseman's
pair of round-trippers, the first two of only 17 he will hit during his
four-year big league career, helps Toronto beat Chicago, 9-5, giving the
franchise a victory in the first game it plays in its history. In his first
major league at-bat and the first pitch he sees, Al Woods of the Blue Jays
becomes the first player to pinch-hit a home run on Opening Day and the 11th
player in ML history to hit the first pitch he sees for a HR in his first AB.

Before 43,785 in the Opener at Yankee Stadium, Catfish Hunter holds the
Brewers to five hits, three by Von Joshua, as the Yankees win 3-0. Von's
last hit strikes Catfish in the instep and he leaves after 7 innings of
work. Sparky Lyle pitches the last two innings. Jim Wynn has two hits for New
York, including a homer in his first Yankee at-bat. Reggie Jackson, in his
first start as a Yankee, also has two hits and two runs, one on a suicide
squeeze by Willie Randolph. With the recent addition of Bucky Dent to the
lineup, the Yankees start an all-star at every position (Catfish Hunter,
Thurman Munson, Chris Chambliss, Willie Randolph, Dent, Graig Nettles, Roy
White, Mickey Rivers, Reggie Jackson and Jimmy Wynn). They will duplicate
this on Opening Day 2005.

In the Dodgers opener in Los Angeles, Giants leadoff hitter Gary Thomasson
apparently doesn't get the word that the first pitch is to be handed over
to the umps and sent to Cooperstown. Instead, he cranks the Don Sutton
lollipop for a homerun. But it is all the scoring the Giants can muster,
and they lose, 5-1.

1978
Mark Fidrych scatters 5 hits in beating Toronto, 6-2. The Tigers get
homers from Milt May, Phil Mankowski and Jason Thompson. The Bird, trying
to recover from tendinitis that limited him to 11 starts in 1977, will win
only 3 more ML games.

At Comiskey Park 50,754 watch as the White Sox edge the Red Sox, 6-5, on Wayne
Nordhagen's bloop double in the last of the 9th. Dick Drago, in relief of Mike
Torrez, takes the loss, after allowing a game tying homer to Ron Blomberg
and a single to Chet Lemon. Larrin LeGrow is the winner. Red Sox icon Carl
Yastrzemski has two singles, the 11th straight opener he has had a hit.

The U.S. Court of Appeals upholds an earlier court decision in support of
Commissioner Kuhn's voiding of attempted player sales by A's owner Charlie
Finley in June 1976. Finley's appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court will be
rejected on October 2nd.

1979
Ken Forsch, who almost didn't make the start due to swelling in his
right arm caused by an insect bite, holds the Braves hitless throwing
the earliest no-hitter in baseball history as the Astros down the Braves,
6-0. The Astro hurler's no-no makes the Forsch brothers the first siblings
to both accomplish the feat with Bob, as a member of the Cardinals, throwing
a no-hitter against the Phillies last season.

Clemson defeats North Carolina State 41-9, tying the NCAA record for scoring.

1983
ML Baseball, ABC and NBC agree to terms of a 6-year television package
worth $1.2 billion. The 2 networks will continue to alternate coverage
of the playoffs, World Series and All-Star Game through the 1989 season,
with each of the 26 clubs receiving $7 million per year in return. The last
package gave each club $1.9 million per year.

1984
Jack Morris no-hits Chicago blanking the White Sox in Comiskey, 4-0, walking
6 and striking out 8. The 29-year-old right-hander becomes the first Tiger
to accomplish the feat since 1958 when Jim Bunning held Boston hitless at
Fenway Park.

Dwight Gooden allows one run in 5 innings in his ML debut, earning the win
in the Mets' 3-2 victory over Houston. At 19, he is the youngest NL player.

1986
Boston outfielder Dwight Evans becomes the first player to hit the first
pitch of the first game on Opening Day for a homerun. Jack Morris throws
the gopher ball but gets the win when the Tigers edge the Red Sox, 6-5.
Detroit's Kirk Gibson hits 2 homers, adds two singles and drives in 5 runs.

Extending his major league record White Sox (2) hurler Tom Seaver makes his
16th Opening Day start. The 41-year-old future Hall of Fame right-hander
has also pitched the first game of the season for the Mets (11) and Reds (3).

1987
Atlanta's Rick Mahler ties the NL record with his 3rd Opening Day shutout,
a 6-0 three-hitter over the Phillies.

1988
Chris Sabo, playing in just his second big league game, ties a major league
record handling eleven assists at third base in the Reds' 8-1 victory over
the Cardinals at Riverfront Stadium. The Cincinnati freshman infielder will
beat out Chicago's Mark Grace for Rookie of the Year honors this season.

1991
The Phillies obtain P Mitch Williams from the Cubs in exchange for P Chuck
McElroy and P Bob Scanlan.

1992
At Opening Day in Philadelphia Greg Maddux holds the Phils to 6 hits in 7
innings and the Cubs win, 4-3.

1995
The Marlins sign free agent IF Terry Pendleton, the NL's MVP in 1991.

1996
Mark Carreon drives home 6 runs on 2 homers, one a grand slam, to lead
the Giants to a 14-7 gaffing of the Marlins. Jeff Conine and Andre Dawson,
with his 30th 4-hit game, each have 4 hits for the Fish. The win goes to
Steve Bougeois, who wins his first in the majors with 2 1/3 scoreless innings.

Aussie Craig Shipley is 5 for 5 to lead the Padres to a 17-2 downing of
the Astros. Sean Bergman wins his first in the NL by allowing just 2 hits
in 8 innings. Brian Johnson adds 5 RBI for the Pads.

Phillies catcher-turned left fielder Darren Daulton goes on the DL because of
pain in his right knee, which was reconstructed during the off-season. Daulton
has had the left knee operated on 8 times during his 12-year career.

1997
The Brewers home opener has two lengthy delays as the ground crew needs to
clear baseballs thrown by fans from the playing field. It will be the last
time the team will give away souvenir baseballs as a promotion.

The Mets place P Pete Harnisch on the DL. Harnisch has been battling insomnia
and other related problems due to having given up smokeless tobacco last
month.

1999
Bob Cranmer, chairman of the Allegheny County Commissioners, announces
the Sixth Street Bridge, which joins downtown Pittsburgh to the North
Side at Federal Street by crossing the Allegheny River, will now be known
as the Roberto Clemente Bridge. During home games at PNC Park the 995-foot
suspension bridge, built in 1928, will serve as a pedestrian walkway allowing
Pirates fans to enter the new ballpark directly from the span.

2000
The Indians defeat the Devil Rays, 14-5, in Tampa Bay's home opener, scoring
9 runs in the 2nd inning. The Devil Rays retire uniform No. 12 in honor
of Wade Boggs. Although the former Red Sox and Yankee third baseman only
spent just two years with Tampa Bay, he hit the franchise's first homerun
and became the 23rd member of the 3,000-hit club as a member of the team.

In 15 games, a record total of 57 homeruns are hit in the major leagues -
two more than the August 13, 1999 mark established in 17 games. The 36
American League homers set the record for a league in one day, surpassing
the previous mark by six.

Berley W. Visgar is sentenced to 90 days in jail and is fined $1,000 by
Circuit Judge Michael Brennan jumping onto the back of Astros' outfielder
Bill Spiersfor after going on to the field at County Stadium last September
24th. Although the 23-year-old has no prior criminal record, the judge
believes the harsh sentence will discourage other fans from similar actions
in the future.

The Astros play a regular-season game outdoors in Houston for the first
time since 1965. 41,583 fans, including George W. Bush, are on hand for
the opener at brand-new Enron Field. Enron president Kenneth Lay throws out
the first ball. Led by Randy Wolf's 7 strong innings, the Phillies top the
Astros, 4-1. Octavio Dotel gives up 2 runs before leaving in the 7th with
the loss. Scott Rolen and Ron Gant homer for the Phillies, while Richard
Hidalgo goes deep for the Astros. Scott Rolen hits the first homerun in
the new ballpark.

The Orioles defeat the Tigers, 14-10. The two teams combine to hit 5 HRs
in the 5th inning, tying the major league mark.

Andrew Klein suffered permanent brain damage as the result of an injury,
which occurred during batting practice while he and 100 other youngsters
participated in a pregame "Bullpen Buddies" program at Pro Player Stadium. Ray
Lankford hit a line drive into the stands that struck Andrew in the left
temple.

The Reds obtain P Manny Aybar from the Rockies for P Gabe White.

2001
In the 10th against the Indians, the Orioles shift LF Delino DeShields behind
2B with 1 out and the bases loaded. RF Brady Anderson moves to shallow LF
and CF Mora moves to right center. Jolbert Cabrera hits a fly near the LF
line to Anderson who fires a strike to get the surprised runner Ellis Burks
trying to score. The O's score 2 in the top of the 11th to win, 4-2.

Sammy Sosa hits his first homer, a solo shot to right center, as the Cubs
defeat the Phillies, 8-4.

2002
The Diamondbacks defeat the Brewers, 2-0, as Curt Schilling strikes out 17
batters in hurling a one-hitter. Raul Casanova's 2nd-inning single is the
only Milwaukee hit.

The Phillies' Pat Burrell breaks a 2-2 tie with Florida by belting a no-out
11th inning homer off Braden Looper, as the Phils win, 3-2. Burrell will
win a game on April 10 with a 11th inning HR against Atlanta. It is one of
three extra inning walk-off homers today in the NL:  Marcus Giles, Atlanta,
hits one in the 14th against the Mets Satoru Komiyama and Houston's Daryle
Ward takes the Cards Luther Hackman deep in the 12th.

2003
With the team exercising Pedro Martinez' option for the 2004 season seven
months before a November deadline, the Red Sox make the Dominican hurler the
highest paid pitcher for a season in major league history. The 31-year-old
three-time Cy Young winner will earn $17.5 million next season.

Gary Sheffield, Chipper Jones and Andruw Jones hit consecutive homeruns in the
bottom half of the 6th inning to lead Atlanta to a 3-0 victory over Florida.

John Wasdin pitches a perfect game for the Nashville Sounds in the Triple-A
Pacific Coast League, just the second perfecto in the 100-year history
of the league. John Halama, then with the Tacoma Rainiers, pitched the
first one in 2001. The 30-year-old Wasdin fires the first perfect game in
the team's 26-year history in a 4-0, 100-pitch victory over the visiting
Albuquerque Isotopes at Greer Stadium. He strikes out 15.

2004
The Braves overcome a 6-0 deficit and pound out 19 hits on their way to
an 18-10 win over the Mets. Atlanta takes the lead for good by scoring 11
runs in the thirty-three minute 4th inning. Mike Piazza goes 5 for 5 for NY,
including a pair of HRs. He becomes the first catcher in modern ML history
to hit 3 HRs in the first 2 games of the season. Rookie Adam LaRoche, Johnny
Estrada and Julio Franco combined for six hits and seven RBIs in the 4th
inning. LaRoche is the first N.L. player to garner two hits in an inning
in his big-league debut; the feat has been accomplished three times in the AL.

The Astros defeat the Giants, 10-1, as Roger Clemens hurls 7 innings of
1-hit ball in his NL debut. The game marks the first time in history that
a pitcher with at least 300 wins (Clemens) faces a hitter with 600 or more
homers (Barry Bonds).

The Red Sox top the Orioles, 10-3, as OF Johnny Damon strokes 5 hits,
including a double.

Montreal Expo pitcher Chad Bentz makes the Expos opening day roster despite
having a deformed right hand. Bentz, like Jim Abbott before him, pitches
with his left hand then switches his glove to his left hand to field. Bentz
made his debut against the Florida Marlins on April 7. The southpaw attended
Long Beach State on a baseball scholarship and was drafted by the Expos in
the seventh round of the 2001 amateur draft.

2005
Down 5-2, the Cleveland Indians Casey Blake, Coco Crisp and Ron Belliard
hit three homeruns in the 9th inning to tie the White Sox. Cleveland scores
6 more in the 11th to win the game, 11-5.

2006
The Tigers defeat the Rangers, 5-2, as Chris Shelton becomes the 3rd player
to hit 5 HRs in his teams first 4 games. Lou Brock (1967) and Barry Bonds
(2002) are the others who have accomplished the feat.

The Brewers down the Diamondbacks, 3-1, for their 4th consecutive win. Derrick
Turnbow gets the save for Milwaukee, becoming the 1st P to save each of
his team's first 4 games of the season since the save became an official
statistic in 1969.

2009
Ninety-seven years after his grandfather, Boston mayor John "Honey Fitz"
Fitzgerald, threw out the first pitch at the first major league game played
at Fenway Park, U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy also tosses the ceremonial first
pitch for the Red Sox at a season opener. The sell-out crowd enthusiastically
cheered the 77-year-old long-time Massachusetts law maker, who was diagnosed
last spring with a malignant brain tumor, when he tosses the ball from in
front of the mound to a nearby Jim Rice, a newly elected member of the Hall
of Fame.

2010
According to its annual report, Forbes magazine estimates the value of the
Yankees to be worth approximately $1.6 billion, nearly twice as much as
any other major league franchise. The World Champs, who moved into a new
ballpark last season, made $441 million in net revenue after adjustments
were made for its payment to baseball's revenue sharing program and the
costs of financing its new stadium.

2012
Octavio Dotel, playing for his 13th team, breaks a major league record
he previously shared with Mike Morgan, Matt Stairs and Ron Villone. The
39-year-old Tiger reliever, who throws 1 1/3 scoreless innings against
Boston, has also appeared with the Mets, Astros, A's, Yankees, Royals,
Braves, White Sox, Pirates, Dodgers, Rockies, Blue Jays and Cardinals.

2015
Mariner rookie Tyler Olson's first big league outing takes only five seconds
when he throws just one pitch, inducing Erick Aybar to ground into a 5-4-3
inning-ending double play in the top of the ninth in the team's 2-0 loss to
the Halos at Safeco Field. The freshman southpaw is most likely the only
hurler in major league history to retire two hitters with his only pitch
of his first career game.

