Apr 8

1909
While at spring training, Hal Chase of the Highlanders contracts smallpox. The
entire team is vaccinated and quarantined while traveling north.

1914
An attempt to legalize Sunday baseball in Massachusetts is defeated.

1916
Tris Speaker is still a holdout as a reaction to Boston owner Joseph Lannin's
proposal to cut his salary from a reported $18,500 to $9,000. Speaker wants
$15,000. Speaker's salary, the highest in the game for the past two years,
was negotiated under the threat of Speaker jumping to the Federal League. With
the demise of that league, the Sox are looking to save money. The Red Sox,
in anticipation of resolving the contract dispute by trading Speaker,
purchase the hard-throwing OF Tilly Walker from the Browns.

1922
At Sportsman's Park the Cardinals wear their new uniforms (two red birds
on a bat with the words "Cardinals" across the front) for the first time
in an exhibition contest with the Browns. The Browns' Urban Shocker tops
Willie Sherdel, 3-2, the same result as their matchup a week ago.

1924
In Nashville the Giants lose an exhibition game 9-8 to the White Sox on
a scorekeeper's error. The Sox scored 8 runs in the early innings, but
the scorekeeper posted a 9. When the Giants came back to score 8 runs,
the scoreboard indicated New York was a run down, and that's the way it
ended. Both managers were furious after the game when the error was pointed
out by several writers traveling with the teams.

1927
Four days before the season opens NL club representatives meet to resolve
the question of the Giants' Rogers Hornsby retaining his shares of stock in
the St. Louis Cardinals. After a lengthy meeting, Hornsby breaks the impasse
by agreeing to sell his stock in the Cardinals for $100,000 plus $12,000
for legal fees. He receives $86,000 from Cards' owner Sam Breadon, $2,000
from each of the other 7 NL clubs, and an extra $12,000 from the Giants.

1930
Sacramento sets two PCL Opening Day records in its 21-14 win over Mission. The
21 runs and 24 hits set the marks.

In Memphis, the Chicks beat the Yankees in an exhibtion game, 3-1. Babe Ruth,
hobbling from an injury incurred 2 days ago in Dallas, bashes a HR for the
only run. In his next at-bat he hits the top of the signboard at Russwood
Park as Ruth ambles to 1B for single. Sam Byrd pinch runs.

1932
The Dodgers buy George Kelly, former Giants star, from Minneapolis.

1933
Before 2,500 at Fenway the Red Sox shut out the Braves, 7-0. The winning
pitcher is Ivy Andrews. The Braves will win tomorrow, 4-2.

1934
The Phillies and A's meet in the final City Series game before 15,000
fans at Shibe Park, the first legal Sunday baseball game ever played in
Philadelphia. The exhibition game was made possible when the state made
Sunday baseball a local option and the city approved it in a referendum
ballot. The A's are victorious, 8-1, taking the series, and winning the
Harry Mackay Trophy, named after a former city mayor.

In Chicago the Washington Senators conclude a two-game exhibition series
with the Cubs. The Senators won yesterday, 8-3, but lose today, 5-2.

1947
In an exhibition game played against the Indians in Sheffield, Alabama
second-year player Whitey Lockman breaks his leg sliding into second base
trying to break up a double play. With the exception of two appearances as
a pinch hitter, the Giants sophomore outfielder will miss all of the season.

1949
Dissension rumors surround the NL title-holder Boston Braves after manager
Billy Southworth calls a closed meeting of the club in a South Carolina hotel.

1954
The Orioles pick up veteran Dave Koslo from the Giants.

1957
In a harbinger of games to come the Braves beat the Dodgers, 8-5, for the
4th straight time in spring training. The win at Oklahoma City leaves the
Braves (18-8) atop the Grapefruit League ahead of the Pirates (17-8).

1960
The Cubs get infielder Don Zimmer from the Dodgers in return for
infielder John Goryl, OF Lee Handley, minor league P Ron Perranoski and
cash. Perranoski, 11-10 at Ft. Worth, will develop into the top reliever
in the NL.

1963
In his first major league at-bat Pete Rose works out a walk off Pirates'
pitcher Earl Francis.

After being promised the Secretary of Labor would intervene to mediate their
dispute, the D.C. Stadium striking vendors do not appear at the ballpark
and President John F. Kennedy doesn't have to cross a picket line to toss
out the ceremonial first pitch. The Senators lose the game, 3-1, and JFK's
suggestion of playing Tom Brown doesn't pan out as the rookie first baseman
fans three times. Young Steve Barber starts the season for the O's against
the Washington Senators. Brown, Barber's high school teammate, will go on
to football. Jim Gentile and Boog Powell homer for the Birds.

The Tigers claim Denny McLain on first-year waivers from the White Sox for
$25,000. The right-hander, who will become the game's last 30-game winner
playing in the motor city, will win the American League Most Valuable Player
and Cy Young Award in 1968 helping Detroit to win its first World Series
in 23 years.

1964
Houston P Jim Umbricht dies of cancer at age 33. He was 4-3 with a 2.61
ERA in 1963. His #32 will be the first uniform number retired by Houston,
in 1965, by which time the team will be known as the Astros.

1966
At the Astrodome, the Astros and Dodgers play baseball's first game on
synthetic grass. Thanks to the Monsanto chemical company who proposed
using an experimental playing surface of nylon grass, the plan to play
on an all-dirt field, necessitated by the need to paint the dome's glass
panes to reduce the glare which prevented natural grass from growing,
was alleviated by the use of 'Astro Turf'.

1969
Expansion teams Kansas City Royals, Montreal Expos, San Diego Padres and
Seattle Pilots make things look easy by winning their first regular-season
games. The Expos win by scoring 11 runs against the Mets to win, 11-10
(this is the first international contest in major league history). Pitcher
Dan McGinn cracks the Expos first (and only) homer, off Tom Seaver, to help
keep the Mets winless for Openers. The host Royals edge the Twins in 12
innings, 4-3, with reliever Moe Drabowsky picking up the win. Scoring all
of their runs in the top of the first, Seattle wins, 4-3, at Anaheim. Mike
Hegan hits the first Pilots' HR, a solo shot off McGlothlin. Jack Murphy
Stadium is dedicated as 23,370 fans watch the Padres make their National
League debut defeating the Astros, 2-1. The leadoff batter Astro outfielder
Jesus Alou. Brother Matty, with the Pirates, was the first batter up at the
opening of Atlanta's Fulton County Stadium on April 12, 1966, and Brother
Felipe, playing for Atlanta, was the first batter up when Busch Stadium
opened in St. Louis a month later.

In a move to resolve the aborted Rusty Staub-Donn Clendenon trade, Montreal
keeps first baseman Clendenon and completes the deal by sending pitchers
Jack Billingham and Skip Guinn, and an estimated $100,000 to compensate
the Astros. Montreal will finally peddle Clendenon to the New York Mets
at the trade deadline. Clendenon will help New York win the NL pennant,
and then he wins the World Series MVP award following the Mets victory over
the Baltimore Orioles.

After a long recovery following an August, 1967 beaning, Tony Conigliaro
starts his first game for Boston. His dramatic 2-run 10th-inning HR gives
the Red Sox a brief lead, and his 12th-inning run wins it, 5-4 over the
O's at Baltimore.

In the Opener at Wrigley Field, the Cubs trail the Phillies, 6-5, with one
on in the 11th when Willie Smith hits a pinch homer into the RF bleachers
to give Chicago the 7-6 win. The Cubs will not drop out of first place for
155 days. Ernie Banks has a pair of homers for Chicago and is matched by
Don Money's pair.

1970
As partial compensation for the loss of Curt Flood, who refuses to report
to Philadelphia, the Cardinals send minor league prospect Willie Montanez
to the Phillies. The former St. Louis outfielder takes exception to being
traded (on October 7, 1969) without his consent, ultimately appealing his
challenge of the reserve clause, unsuccessfully, to the U.S. Supreme Court.

1974
In the 4th inning of the Braves home opener 7-4 win against the Dodgers,
Henry Aaron parks an Al Downing pitch in the left-centerfield stands for
career homerun number 715, breaking Ruth's once thought to be unapproachable
record. ("Hammerin' Hank" equaled the Bambino's mark on Opening Day in
Cincinnati.) Looking on is Braves manager Eddie Mathews, who homered in the
same game as Aaron 75 times, a major league record for duos. After Downing
walks the next 2 batters, Mike Marshall makes his first appearance as a
Dodger, and the first of a record 106 appearances this year. The Dodgers
are wearing black arm-bands this game (and for the next few) in memory of
Ken McMullen's wife, who died just before the season started. Nearly 54,000
watch the game.

1975
After Rachel Robinson, widow of Jackie, tosses out the first ball in
Cleveland, Frank Robinson, the first black manager in ML history, adds a
dramatic touch by homering in his first Cleveland at-bat (as a DH) during a
5-3 win over the visiting Yankees. For player-manager Robinson, it is his
8th Opening Day HR, setting a ML record. Starter Doc Medich is the loser,
going 5 innings and giving up all 5 runs. Gaylord goes all the way to win for
the Tribe, while Boog Powell backs him, going 3 for 3 with a double and homer.

In a club house meeting, Boston captain Carl Yastrzemski criticizes his
teammates for their poor attitude in spring training when they went 10-20.
In the game, the season opener at Fenway Park, the Sox bomb Jim Slaton for
5 runs in 3 innings and defeat Milwaukee, 5-2. Hank Aaron is hitless in his
AL debut, while teammate Robin Yount homers. Tony Conigliaro, who retired
four years ago after being traded to the Angels in 1970, plays in the first
game of his attempted comeback with the Red Sox. As a designated hitter,
the 30-year-old fan-favorite, who will only collect 7 hits in 21 games,
singles in his first at-bat.

1976
At County Stadium, the Brewers open against the Yankees with Hank Aaron
driving in 3 runs to back Jim Slaton's 4-hit 5-0 win. Five days later,
Slaton will shut out the Tigers. Catfish Hunter is the loser, allowing 5
runs in 7 innings. Later, both he and reliever Sparky Lyle complain about
the flatness of the mound.

Before a crowd of 52,949 the Reds open at home with an 11-5 win over
the Astros.

1978
At the Opener in Arlington, the Rangers edge the Yankees 2-1 behind newcomers
Richie Zisk and Jon Matlack. Matlack scatters 8 hits in winning, while Zisk
belts a 9th inning solo shot off Goose Gossage to break a tie. Guidry goes
7 innings for New York allowing six singles and after this no-decision he
will win 13 straight games.

1979
George Foster's grand slam helps the Reds to come back as they beat the
Giants, 7-6 in 10 innings.

1984
Tom Seaver makes an inauspicious AL debut, allowing 5 runs in 4 1/3 innings
as the Chicago White Sox lose, 7-3, to the Detroit Tigers.

In a 3-1 loss to the Mets, Astros SS Dickie Thon is hit in the face by a
Mike Torrez pitch that breaks the orbital bone around his eye. Thon will be
operated on April 11, but will miss the rest of the season. When he returns,
the All-Star SS will be plagued with blurred vision and be relegated to a
backup role.

In San Diego Ryne Sandberg cracks a 10th inning run-scoring triple to make
the score 7-5 over the Pads, and then steals home to seal it for the Cubs.

Admitting he has a cocaine problem, Pittsburgh's Rod Scurry checks into a
30-day drug rehabilitation program. He will return to action on May 13th.

1985
At Fenway 46-year-old Phil Niekro starts for the Yankees, the 2nd oldest
pitcher ever to start an Opener ... only Jack Quinn, for Brooklyn in 1931,
was older at age 47. Boston chases Niekro after 4 innings and behind the
pitching of Oil Can Boyd coasts to a 9-2 win. Niekro walks 4 in the 3rd
inning, including two with the bases loaded, to lose his 7th Opener in
a row (6 with Atlanta), the worst opening day record ever. Tony Armas,
Dwight Evans and Jim Rice stroke homers for Boston.

At the opener in Baltimore, Texas starter Charlie Hough is lifted in the 6th
despite giving up no hits. Hough walked 4 in a row - 8 altogether - and C Don
Slaught had allowed a run to score on a passed ball. Hough's replacement,
Dave Rozema, only allows 2 hits. Unfortunately, one of the hits is a 2-run
HR in the 8th by Eddie Murray to snap a 2-2 tie. Don Aase is the winner.

1986
Facing Nolan Ryan of the Astros, Giant rookie Will Clark homers in his
first major league at-bat

After hitting a 2-run homerun to tie the score in the bottom of the 9th,
Seattle's Jim Presley belts a grand slam with 2 out in the bottom of the
10th to give the Mariners an 8-4 season-opening win over the Angels.

Rookie Will Clark thrills the crowd by hitting a HR in his first at-bat,
and off no less than Nolan Ryan. The Giants beat the Astros 8-3.

The Kansas City Royals are the first defending champions - besides the New
York Yankees - in 61 years to open at Yankee Stadium, and they start the
season on the wrong foot by losing, 4-2. New York scores all 4 runs off
starter Bud Black, who gives up a three-run homer to Butch Wynegar in the
2nd. Hal McRae accounts for both KC runs with a two-run homer off starter
Ron Guidry, one of two hits Guidry gives up in 5 innings. Guidry wins his
first Opener with relief help from Rod Scurry and Dave Righetti.

At Chicago, Tom Seaver makes his ML record 16th Opening Day start, but the
White Sox vet loses to the Brewers, 5-3.

1987
Faced with a storm of public criticism the Dodgers fire vice president Al
Campanis for racially insensitive remarks he made on the April 6th telecast
of ABC-TV's Nightline news show. Campanis had said that blacks may lack "some
of the necessities to be, let's say, a field manager or general manager."

Pitchers Phil Niekro and Steve Carlton of the Indians team up to beat the
Blue Jays, 14-3. Niekro wins his 312th and Carlton tosses 4 shutout innings
of relief. It is the first time two 300-game winners have pitched in the
same game as teammates.

1989
One-handed pitcher Jim Abbott makes his ML debut but lasts only 4 2/3 innings
in California's 7-0 loss to Seattle. The 21-year-old southpaw, who bypassed
the minors completely after starring at the University of Michigan, will
finish the season 12-12 with a 3.92 ERA, the most ML wins in a first pro
season since the Browns Ernie Wingard won 13 in his 1st pro season, in 1925.

1991
In a 5-4 Opening Day loss to the Brewers at Arlington Stadium, future Hall
of Famer Goose Gossage (2008) relieves in a game started by Rangers hurler
Nolan Ryan (1999), also a future member of the Hall of Fame. It's the first
time in major league history that a 300-game winner appears in the same
contest with a teammate who has 300 saves.

Major league umpires strike on Opening Day and amateur umps are used as
replacements. The arbiters, whose working agreement expired on December 31,
will settle and return to work the next day. Among the benefits won by the
union is an increase in starting salaries from $41,000 to $60,000.

1993
Indians 2B Carlos Baerga becomes the 1st player in major league history to
homer from both sides of the plate in the same inning, connecting in the
7th inning of Cleveland's 15-5 win over the Yankees.

1994
Kent Mercker no-hits Los Angeles, 6-0, at Dodger Stadium. The Braves
left-hander was one of the three Atlanta pitchers, along with Mark Wohlers
and Alejandro Pena, in 1991 to also no-hit the Padres, but this victory
is his first complete game in the major leagues. Chan Ho Park becomes the
first Korean to play in the major leagues as he makes his Dodger pitching
debut in the 9th inning.

1995
The Rockies sign free agent OF Larry Walker and free agent P Bill Swift.

The Indians sign free agent P Orel Hershiser.

The Red Sox trade 3B Scott Cooper, P Cory Bailey and a player to be named
to the Cardinals for OF Mark Whiten and P Rheal Cormier.

Darryl Strawberry enters the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage, California
for 18 days of treatment for substance abuse.

Oakland defeats Minnesota, 15-5, as Geronimo Berroa gets 5 hits and drives
home 5 runs for the A's.

1996
The NL announces that 325-pound umpire Eric Gregg has been granted a leave
of absence so he can enter a weight loss program.

1997
In a 14-8 Mariners victory over the Indians at the Kingdome, M's pitcher
Josias Manzanillo, who doesn't wear a protective cup, is hit in the groin
by a Manny Ramirez 107 mph line drive. Now a firm believer in the use of
protective gear, the 29-year-old reliever will be put on the 15-day disabled
list for surgery needed to repair a tear in his testicles.

The Pirates defeat the Padres, 2-0, as Steve Cooke, Rich Loiselle and John
Ericks combine to hold SD to 1 hit, a single off Cooke by Steve Finley.

1998
The Athletics trade OF Shane Mack and a player to be named to the Royals
in exchange for C Mike Macfarlane and cash.

1999
The Expos defeat the Mets, 5-1, behind the pitching of Miguel Batista. Batista
also dribbles a ball in front of the plate for his 1st major league hit
after beginning his career 0 for 41 to tie Randy Tate's big league record.

Philadelphia defeats Atlanta, 6-3, and the Phils tie an NL record by using
5 pitchers in the 8th inning. Only 1 run scores in the frame as the Braves
leave the bases loaded.

2000
Toronto's David Wells allows 9 hits in shutting out the Rangers, 4-0. Kenny
Rogers loses at home ending his 19-game home winning streak, the 3rd longest
in ML history. The streak dates to June 28, 1997 when Rogers was with the
Yankees. Since then he's pitched for Oakland and the Mets.

The Dodgers score 4 runs in the 9th and 1 in the 10th to defeat the Mets,
6-5. Dodger P Kevin Brown breaks the pinkie on his throwing hand during
the game and will be out 3 to 4 weeks.

The Cardinals announce plans for a new $370 million ballpark, possibly to
open in time for the 2004 season.

2001
The Pirates defeat the Astros, 9-3, as 3B Aramis Ramirez hits 3 HRs and
drives home 6 runs.

The Red Sox defeat the Devil Rays, 3-0. Boston's Pedro Martinez hurls 8
innings of 3-hit shutout ball and strikes out 16 batters.

In the Yankees 16-5 win over Toronto, Yankee PH Scott Seabol becomes the
lowest-drafted player (88th round in 1996) to ever appear in the ML. Al
Cowens, picked on the 75th round in 1969, was the previous player. This
distinction will last just 11 days before Travis Phelps - the Tampa Bay
Devil Rays' selection in the 89th round, also in 1996 - makes his debut
on April 19. Clemens is the winner as batterymate Jorge Posada belts his
first grand slam, one of 20 Yankee hits.

2002
Houston turns back Colorado, 8-4, as Craig Biggio hits for the cycle. Biggio
drives home 4 runs in recording the 6th cycle in Astros' history. He began
the day batting .174.

The Yankees pound out 22 hits in defeating the Blue Jays, 16-3. Alfonso
Soriano gets 5 hits for NY, including a 2B and 3-run HR, while Robin Ventura
drives home 6 runs.

After opening their season with 6 straight losses the Tigers fire manager
Phil Garner and general manager Randy Smith. Coach Luis Pujols takes over
the reins on an interim basis while team president Dave Dombrowski assumes
the GM's responsibilities. Pujols will sign a 1-year deal to become the
full-time manager tomorrow. Smith is the 2nd of 4 GM's to leave their post
this season. In early July Chicago Cub GM Andy McPhail will give up his
position to concentrate on his duties as club president, and Brewer GM Dean
Taylor will get axed in the last week of the season.

2003
At the home opener at PNC Park, Pittsburgh unveils a sculpture of Ralph
Kiner. The Hall of Fame homerun hitter, who is depicted in the bronze artwork
gripping a Kiner-model Louisville Slugger bat, joins Willie Stargell,
Honus Wagner and Roberto Clemente as other former Pirates honored with
ballpark statues.

As a backlash of the Canadians' reaction in Montreal last month at the singing
of the Star-Spangled Banner due to their opposition of the U.S. war in Iraq,
some of the 29,138 patrons at the Cub opener boo as the Canadian national
anthem, "O' Canada", is performed prior to the Expo game at Wrigley Field.

By going 4 for 4 along with three walks, Rockies' first baseman Todd Helton
sets a club record by reaching base in all seven plate appearances. Chris
Stynes also sets a franchise mark for most plate appearances in a game
with eight.

After delaying their home opener by a day because of impending snow, on a
frigid 35-degree day, with the fans chanting his name, Hideki Matsui hit his
first major league homerun, a grand slam into the right field bleachers. He
is the first Yankee in history to hit a grand slam in his first game in Yankee
Stadium. After being greeted with a warm reception in the pre-game ceremonies
and a standing ovation after making a great defensive play, Godzilla receives
a thunderous applause and a curtain call from the sold-out Yankee Stadium
crowd after his fifth inning bases-full poke against the Twins. The Yankees
defeat the Twins 7-3. The loss puts the Twins below .500 for the first time
since the end of the 2000 season, a club-record span of 328 consecutive games.

The Braves got 3 consecutive HRs ... from Gary Sheffield, Chipper Jones
and Andruw Jones ... in the 6th inning against the Marlins. It is the 2nd
consecutive year that Andruw Jones is part of a back-to-back-to-back HR trio,
doing it last June 11, with Vinny Castilla and Matt Franco.

St. Louis Cardinals catcher Mike Matheny tags out Jay Payton at the plate
and sends the game into extra innings. Matheny hits a three-run homer in the
13th to give his team a 15-12 victory over the Colorado Rockies. Cardinals
centerfielder Jim Edmonds has four hits and five RBI while becoming only the
sixth major league player to notch seven extra base hits in two consecutive
games. The last player to tie this record was Larry Walker on May 22,
1996. Todd Helton is 4 for 4 for the losers.

In a 4-2 loss to the Mets, Marlins C Ivan Rodriguez ties the modern NL
record with 5 walks in a 9-inning game. The last player to accomplish this
was Vince Coleman, who like Rodriguez, had walkaphobia during his career. The
Mets allow 7 walks as Al Leiter (2-0) gets the victory.

2004
In the first game of their new downtown ballpark, the Padres come from
behind twice after Trevor Hoffman blows a save in the ninth, to beat the
Giants in 10 innings at PETCO Park, 4-3. San Diego scores in the bottom of
the ninth knotting the score at 2-2 and then scores two runs in the tenth
after falling behind in the top of the frame.

The Milwaukee Brewers down the St. Louis Cardinals, 11-5, as Scott Podsednik
has four hits and Brady Clark knocks in four runs. Albert Pujols smacks a
pair of homers for the Birds. Catcher Cody McKay makes his major league debut
as a pinch-hitter for St. Louis, then goes to the mound and hurls 2 hitless
innings, walking one. He is the 20th position player to pitch two innings
or more in a major-league game since 1973. Jose Oquendo posted the longest
pitching stint by a position player since 1973 going four innings against
the Atlanta Braves on May 14, 1988. Dave Burba of the Brewers registers
his first major-league save since June 8, 1991, a span of 4,668 days.

2005
Jimmy Carter, who was not invited by the current administration to be part
of the American delegation to attend today's funeral of Pope John Paul,
attends the home opener at Turner Field. The former president and his wife
Roslyn, who both stayed for the entire game, enjoy watching the Braves beat
the Mets, 3-1.

2006
Barry Zito, Kiko Calero, Joe Kennedy and Huston Street combine to 1-hit
the Mariners as the Athletics cruise to a 3-0 victory. Richie Sexson's
2nd-inning 2B is Seattle's only hit.

The Giants double the Braves, 12-6. The Giants starting outfield of Barry
Bonds (41), Steve Finley (41) and Moises Alou (39) is the oldest in ML
history.

2008
An emotional Bill Buckner returns to Fenway Park for the first time in more
than a decade to throw out the ceremonial first pitch at the Red Sox home
opener. The beleaguered former Boston first baseman, best known for letting
Mookie Wilson's grounder roll between his legs in game 6 of the 1986 World
Series, receives a heart-felt standing ovation from the stunned crowd as
he walks slowly from left field to the pitchers mound.

In the last home opener at Shea Stadium, the Mets are beaten by a pitcher
who is older than their ballpark. Pitching six strong innings, 46-year-old
Jamie Moyer gets the win in the 45-year-old stadium as the Phillies rally
to beat the Mets, 5-2.

At the Play Ball, Chicago! event in the Windy City, the U.S. Postal Service
unveils a stamp commemorating the 100th anniversary of the song, "Take
Me Out to the Ball Game". The very popular song was written on a New York
City train a century ago when passenger Jack Norworth, actor, singer and
songwriter, who claimed never to have seen a major league game wrote the
lyrics after seeing a sign about an upcoming contest at the Polo Grounds,
home of the New Giants.

2009
Four Phillies walk with the bases loaded during an eight-run 7th inning
and Philadelphia rallies for a 12-11 victory over the Atlanta Braves.

2010
In a deal that covers one season beyond his arbitration-eligible years,
Yovani Gallardo (13-12, 3.73) agrees to sign a $30.1 million five-year
contract to stay with Milwaukee. The 24-year-old Brewer right-hander,
considered the ace of the staff, was the team's second-round pick in 2004.

2011
After being informed by MLB that he faces a 100-game suspension for violating
the baseball's drug policy for the second time, Rays' outfielder/DH Manny
Ramirez announces his retirement as an active player. Ramirez served a
50-game ban for violating the drug policy in 2009. The 12-time All-Star,
best known for helping the Red Sox win two World Championships, ends his
19-year big league career with a .312 batting average and 555 homeruns.

2013
On a controversial game-ending strike call by plate umpire Marty Foster,
Joe Nathan retires second baseman Ben Zobrist on a pitch that is clearly
out of the strike zone to earn his 300th career save when the Rangers beat
Tampa Bay in Arlington, 6-5. The Texas right-handed reliever becomes the
24th major-leaguer to reach the milestone.

2014
Ryan Braun hit three homeruns and tied a franchise record with seven RBIs to
lead the Milwaukee Brewers over Philadelphia, 10-4, spoiling the Phillies'
home opener. Braun connected twice off Kyle Kendrick, a three-run shot to
left in the third and a solo homer in the fourth, snapping the longest
homerless drought of his career. He then launched a three-run drive off
Brad Lincoln in the eighth.

Yankee third baseman Yangervis Solarte becomes the first player in major
league history to double six times in the first seven games of his career
when he collects a pair of two-baggers in the team's 14-5 loss to Baltimore
in the Bronx. The 26-year-old rookie, who will be traded to the Padres in
July, along with minor leaguer Rafael De Paula, for Chase Headley and cash,
ends the day with a .429 batting average, going 12 for 28 since the start
of the season.

2015
Adrian Gonzalez becomes the first major league player to hit five homeruns
in the first three games of the season when he goes deep three times in the
Dodgers' 7-4 victory over San Diego at Chavez Ravine. The Los Angeles first
baseman joins Carl Furillo (1955) and Jimmy Wynn (1974) as the only players
in franchise history to have homered in the first three games of a campaign.

2016
Travis Story becomes the first player in major league history to homer six
times in the first four games of a season when he goes deep twice in the
Rockies' 13-6 loss to San Diego at Coors Field. The 23 year-old Colorado
rookie shortstop is the fifth player to homer in four consecutive contests
to start a season, and a feat also accomplished Chris Davis (Orioles, 2013),
Nelson Cruz (Rangers, 2011), Mark McGwire (Cardinals, 1998) and Willie Mays
(Giants, 1971).

2017
Tommy Hansen, who did not hit a home run as a member of the freshman team last
season, becomes the first high schooler in history to hit three consecutive
grand slams in one game when he goes deep three times in Roncalli’s 12-1
win over Metamora Township (IL). Five other players in a high school game
have also hit a trio of bases-full round-trippers in a high school contest,
but none accomplished the feat in consecutive at-bats.

The Phillies, using nine hits, none of which is a homer, and four walks, score
12 first-frame runs en route to a 17-3 rout of the Nationals at Citizens Bank
Park. The dozen tallies mark the biggest first inning in franchise history.

2019
With his line drive out in the fifth inning against the Oakland Athletics,
Chris Davis set the Major League record with his 47th consecutive hitless
at-bat. He broke the record that was set by Eugenio Velez at the end of
the 2010 season and the beginning of the 2011 season. Davis finally was
able to put an end to the streak at 54 consecutive hitless at-bats with a
single in the first inning against the Boston Red Sox on April 13.

