Apr 11

1907
On a cold day in New York, the Giants open against the Phillies before
16,000. A late snowstorm had to be cleared, but there are large piles of
snow surrounding the field. In the 8th inning, with Frank Corridon pitching
a one-hit 3-0 shutout over the Giants, fans, who have been pelting the
players and opposing teams' fans with snowballs, begin jumping from the
stands and running around the outfield. There are no police on duty at
the park, as required by the league, so umpire Bill Klem, in his ML debut,
forfeits the game to the Phils. Seymour has the only hit for New York. New
York C Roger Bresnahan appears wearing shin guards for the first time in a
ML game, although the Phils' Red Dooin had worn papier-mache guards under
his stockings in 1906 while catching and at-bat. It will be a few years
before detachable guards are adopted by all catchers.

At Philadelphia Cy Young leaves in the 9th inning for a pinch hitter with
Boston ahead 4-3. Lee Tannehill relieves, gives up a tying run in the 9th,
but shuts outs the A's for another 5 innings before Boston scores 4 in the
14th to win. The write up of the game gives the victory to Young, stating
that Tannehill didn't pitch well enough to win.

At Washington a record crowd of 12,902 watch the Highlanders' Al Orth beat
his old team, the Nationals, 3-2. Long Tom Hughes, one of the players New
York traded for Orth, is the losing pitcher. Hal Chase skips the opener
because of a salary disagreement, and George Moriarty plays 1B for New York.

The Reds open at the Palace of the Fans and rally for 2 runs in the 9th to
beat Pittsburgh, 4-3. John Ganzel's 2-run single is the big blow. Reds rookie
Mike Mitchell, the PCL batting champ last year, is 3 for 4 with a triple. The
Cincinnati Commercial-Tribune will note tomorrow that umpire "Hank O'Day
used the arm signals yesterday and they were satisfactory. He raises his
left hand for a ball. In case he raises neither hand, it is a strike."

1910
Against Princeton University 22-year-old Jumbo Vaughn strikes out eight
Tigers in six innings and impresses Yankee manager George Stallings enough
that Jumbo will get the Opening Day assignment.

1912
On Opening Day in Brooklyn fans storm Washington Park hours before the
4:00 P.M. starting time causing a near riot. An estimated 30,000 people
crowd into the outfield and along foul lines. The Giants hit a record 13
ground-rule doubles and are leading 18-3 in the 6th when the game is called
due to darkness. Rube Marquard begins a nineteen-game consecutive winning
streak with this win. The streak will end in July when the Giants lose to
Chicago at the West Side Grounds, 7-2.

Redland Field makes its debut with the hometown Reds beating Chicago,
10-6. The ballpark will become known as Crosley Field in 1934 in honor of
the team owner Powel Crosley.

The Champion Athletics open at home, lacing seven hits and beating Walter
Johnson and the Senators, 4-2. Jack Coombs takes the victory.

Playing the Red Sox in the opener at New York's Hilltop Park the Yankees
wear pinstripes for the first time. Boston scores a run in the 1st against
Ray Caldwell and the Yankees respond with two runs in the bottom against
Joe Wood. That is all the scoring until the ninth inning when the Sox score
four runs, including two on a Smoky Joe single. Boston wins, 5-3, on Smoky
Joe Wood's seven hitter.

1916
In a 7-0 exhibition game win against the Yale team in New Haven, Giants third
sacker Hans Lobert snaps a cartilage in his left knee while sliding. The
speedster will miss most of the 1916 season and will never be the same when
he returns. He'll retire after the 1917 year.

The Robins host the Yankees and beat them 7-2 in the last exhibition game
of the pre-season.

1917
In pregame drills before the Yankees Opening Day at the Polo Grounds, the
Yankees impress General Leonard Wood by marching in drills. The Sox, having
not practiced, decline, but then drill New York 10-3 in the game. Boston
breaks a 3-3 tie with four runs in the 7th, three coming home on a round
tripper by Dick Hoblitzell. Tilly Walker adds a double, two triples and
4 RBIs for Boston, while Babe Ruth allows just three hits, all singles,
in beating Ray Caldwell.

In Philadelphia, Walter Johnson and the Nationals shut out the A's,
3-0. Johnson strikes out 11 in outgunning Bullet Joe Bush.

1922
In Oakland, the Oaks beat San Francisco, 7-2. The Oaks will play all their
home games in Oakland for the first time. Previously, they were allowed
only 2 or 3 games a week there; the rest were played in San Francisco.

1925
Before 15,000 at the Polo Grounds, the Senators and Giants reprise their
World Series competition. The Nats take this contest, 9-4, and will win
tomorrow to even the pre-season series at 6 games apiece.

In their first match against each other since 1907, the visiting Red Sox
lose to the Braves, 4-3, before 12,000. Johnny Cooney is the winner over
Jack Quinn. The match in 2 days is called because of the weather.

1928
On Opening Day Ty Cobb and Tris Speaker are in the starting lineup for the
Philadelphia A's. It is the future Hall of Famers first game as teammates.

At Opening Day at the Polo Grounds a heavily Jewish crowd of 30,000 is on
hand to cheer for New Yorker Andy Cohen, Hornsby's replacement at 2B. After
7 seasons in a business suit, manager McGraw abandons it for a Giants
uniform. After Mayor Jimmy Walker tosses out the first ball, Cohen has 3 hits
and 2 RBIs to leads the Giants to a 5-2 win over the Rajah's Braves. Hornsby
is 1 for 4 as Larry Benton is the winner over Bob Smith. Braves CF Eddie Brown
plays in his 576th consecutive game to extend his NL record. After the game,
some one thousand fans rush the field and carry Cohen off on their shoulders.

In Cincinnati, the Reds top the Cubs, 5-1. Dolf Luque scatters 7 hits,
including Freddie Maguire's first and only ML homer, to beat Charlie
Root. Bubble Hargrave and Chuck Dressen score the winning runs in the
5th inning when Cubs C Gabby Hartnett overthrows 3B on a double steal
attempt. Hack Wilson tears a ligament and will be lost to the Cubs for two to
three weeks. Maguire's homer causes the Reds prexy McDiarmid to have some of
the OF seats removed and tomorrow several drives into the area will be outs.

25,000 fans are on hand for the coldest Opener in Philadelphia history as
the A's drop an 8-3 decision to the Yankees. Starter Herb Pennock knocks in
the first two New York runs against Lefty Grove in the 2nd, and the Yanks
score three more in the 3rd to knock Grove out of the game. Ruth has a
triple and scores three runs, while Bing Miller is 3 for 3 for the A's.

1932
The Cardinals trade future Hall of Famer Chick Hafey to the Reds for
outfielder/first baseman Harvey Hendrick (.315), right-hander Benny Frey
(8-12) and cash. The former Redbird outfielder led the National League in
hitting last season batting .349 for the World Series champs.

President Herbert Hoover continues the tradition of throwing out the first
ball in Washington to start the season. The Senators win in the 10th on Heinie
Manush's double off Boston's Danny MacFayden, giving Al Crowder a 1-0 victory.

1941
At the Bee Hive, the Red Sox beat the Bees, 11-6, pinning the loss on Wes
Ferrell. Sibby Sisti hits a HR.

1944
Hollywood and San Diego play the first night baseball game in the PCL since
night games were banned after August 19, 1942.

1950
The Texas League Opener between Dallas and Tulsa is staged in the Cotton
Bowl. The Dallas starters taking the field include Ty Cobb, Mickey Cochrane,
Tris Speaker, Dizzy Dean, Travis Jackson, Frank Baker, Charlie Gehringer as
well as Duffy Lewis and Dallas manager, Charlie Grimm, the two non-Hall of
Famers. After Dean throws one pitch, the squad is replaced by the regular
Dallas Eagles team. 53,578 fans, the largest paid crowd (since surpassed)
in minor-league history, cheer.

1952
In a pre-season game in Columbus, Ohio the Tigers lose to the Tigers, 5-0,
and lose CF Hoot Evers when a pitched ball breaks his right thumb.

A promotional stunt by radio station KVEN in San Francisco gets fowled
up. Because of a Western Union strike, the station planned to use homing
pigeons to send the inning by inning accounts to the station from Ontario,
where Fresno and Ventura (PCL) were playing an exhibition game. The station
would then recreate the game. Alas, only the second inning pigeon arrived
and by the evening of the 12th, only two more pigeons completed their
missions. Hopelessly lost and tired, the first inning pigeon shows up in
Santa Monica on the 15th.

1953
At Fenway the Red Sox top the Milwaukee Braves, 4-1, before 9,000, but the
Braves receive more applause than the Sox. In the match tomorrow the Braves
will reverse today's score.

1954
To make room for promising rookie OF Wally Moon, the Cardinals trade long-time
great Enos Slaughter to the Yankees for Mel Wright and 4 players to be
named. In what turns out to be a good deal for both teams, the Cardinals
get CF Bill Virdon, P Mel Wright and OF Emil Tellinger in return. Virdon
will become the NL Rookie of the Year in 1955, following Wally Moon, and
Slaughter will help the Yankees win 103 games.

At Indianapolis, the Giants and Indians conclude their spring competition
with New York winning, 5-4, in 10 innings on Mays' triple. The Giants win the
21-game spring series, 13-8, in what will be a prelude to the World Series.

The Phillies top the A's, 1-0, in the Philadelphia city series.

At Wrigley Field, the Cubs whip the White Sox 12-9, as the Sox help with
4 errors. Hank Sauer has a 3-run homer.

1955
On the first pitch of his first major league at-bat, future manager Chuck
Tanner hits a homerun for the Braves.

After President Eisenhower tosses out the first ball, the Senators open the
season with a 12-5 win over the Orioles. Bob Porterfield is the complete-game
winner.

1959
After being snowed out yesterday, the Cubs open at home against the
Dodgers. Don Drysdale hits his 1st Opening Day HR, but it is the only Dodger
score against Bob Anderson. Drysdale goes 5 innings and the Dodgers lose
to the Cubs, 6-1. Sammy Taylor has 4 RBIs for the Cubs.

The White Sox top the Tigers, 5-3, as Early Wynn racks up his 250th career
victory. He retires the last 10 batters in tossing a complete game. Luis
Aparicio hits a homer and Sherm Lollar belts two.

Herbert E. Tucker, president of the Boston NAACP, seeks a probe of the Red
Sox for alleged discrimination when the team farms out its only black ball
player, "Pumpsie" Green. Tucker cites a 12-year history of discrimination
toward blacks.

Sad Sam Jones strikes out 7 in facing his former teammates, the Cards,
as the San Francisco Giants win 5-2. Orlando Cepeda has 4 RBIs for SF.

1961
The upstart Angels playing their first game in franchise history defeat a
strong Oriole team, 7-2. Ted Kluszewski homers twice and Eli Grba tosses
a complete game for Los Angeles.

At Fenway Park, Red Sox rookie Carl Yastrzemski gets his first knock. A's
hurler Ray Herbert gives up the first of 3,318 hits 'Captain Carl' will
amass over a 23-year career. However, Herbert beats Bill Monbouquette, 5-2.

In his 12th-straight Opening Day start, Robin Roberts is tagged with the
loss when the Phillies are defeated by the Dodgers and Don Drysdale at LA's
Memorial Coliseum, 6-2. The right-hander's effort ties Grover Cleveland
Alexander's National League record for consecutive season openers. Roberts
is 5-6 on Opening Day.

At Yankee Stadium, the Yankees, led by new manager Ralph Houk, are shut out by
Minnesota's Pedro Ramos, 6-0. Ramos has a two-run single and allows just three
singles in beating Whitey Ford. Ford, however, will finish the season at 25-4.

The wine of victory turns sour for the Giants in their home opener when
Bill Virdon clouts a 2-out 3-run HR off reliever Mike McCormick to give
the Pirates an 8-7 win.

1962
After being rained out the previous night and with some players getting
stuck in an elevator, the New York Mets make their National League debut
in St. Louis losing to the Cardinals, 11-4.

Carroll Hardy breaks up a scoreless duel with a 12th inning grand slam for
a 4-0 Boston victory over Cleveland. This is first loss for Tribe's manager
Mel McGaha who started with a win yesterday.

1963
Warren Spahn's Opening Day 6-1 victory over the Mets is his first win of
the season and the 328th of his career. He thus moves ahead of yesteryear's
great Eddie Plank as the all-time winningest lefthander. Except for Duke
Snider's HR, no Met gets past 2B.

Baltimore's Milt Pappas spoils New York's home opener, beating them,
4-1. The only Yankee score is a Mantle homer.

1966
A crowd of 44,468, including Vice President Hubert Humphrey, attends a
historic opener at Washington. Emmett Ashford becomes the ML's first black
umpire in Cleveland's 5-2 win against the Senators.

For the first time since 1913, the Reds are rained out of their Opener. The
rain will continue for three days and the Reds will open on the road,
losing 2-1 to the Phils on April 15. It is the first time the team has
opened on the road since 1890.

1968
The Tigers get the first of 103 victories in their World Champion campaign
in a dramatic manner. Gates Brown hits a walk-off homerun as a pinch hitter
in the bottom of the ninth at Tiger Stadium to beat the Red Sox, 4-3.

1969
Seattle successfully inaugurates ML baseball at Sicks Stadium as Gary Bell
defeats Chicago 7-0. The Pilots attract 17,850 today and will draw just
678,000 for the season. Scoop Jackson throws out the first ball and will
do the same in the Mariners opener in 1977.

Paul Flesner is baseball's first DH, going to bat in a Texas League game
between Dallas-Ft. Worth and Amarillo. He is 2 for 4 with 4 RBIs as the
visiting Amarillo Sonics win 8-5 in 11 innings.

1970
San Francisco beats Cincinnati, 2-1, dropping the Reds one-half game out of
first place. This will be the only day all season out of first for the Reds,
who will set an NL record of 178 days leading the league.

At Comiskey Park, Danny Walton hits the first two homeruns in Milwaukee
Brewers history, both two-run shots coming against White Sox starter Billy
Wynne. The Brewers win for the first time, 8-4.

1971
At Shea Stadium, Jerry Grote hits a walk-off homer in the 11th off Wayne
Granger. The Mets catcher's game-ending round tripper accounts for the only
run in the Mets' 1-0 victory over the Reds.

The Twins Jim Kaat scatters 11 hits in shutting out the White Sox, 6-0.

1975
In Milwaukee, 48,160 fans brave 37 degree weather to welcome home Hank
Aaron. Hank drives in a run and the Brewers whip the Indians, 6-2.

At Wrigley Field, Ray Burris beats the Expos, 2-1, when the Cubs Rick Monday
scores from 2B on a deep fly to RF.

1976
Before the largest regular season crowd (53,390) to date in Riverfront
history, the Reds whip the Astros, 9-3.

At Philadelphia, the Pirates beat the Phillies and Steve Carlton, 8-3. Bob
Moose, in relief of Bruce Kison, picks up a save, as does Doc Medich
before the game. While walking in from the bullpen Medich Doc spots a man
having a heart attack in the stands. He jumps over the railing and applies
CPR. However, the man later dies in the hospital.

1980
Giants 3B Darrell Evans makes 3 errors in the 7th inning of a 5-3 loss to
the Padres. This ties the NL record for errors by a 3B in one inning.

1981
After 15 seasons as a Dodger, Don Sutton makes his debut with the Astros and
is pounded by his former club for 6 runs in 4 innings. Los Angeles wins 7-4.

1982
At Yankee Stadium, the Yankees finally open with a 7-6 loss to Chicago in
12 innings, then drop a 2-0 nitecap. The grounds crew is feted because of
their efforts in getting the snow-covered field ready, and grounds crew
chief Esposito tosses out the first ball. Jerry Koosman and Ron Guidry are
the starters but Koosman gives up 6 runs in 5 2/3 innings and Guidry 4 runs
in 4 innings to earn showers. Gossage, the last of 4 pitchers, gives up a
leadoff triple to Bill Almon in the 12th and Ron LeFlore drives him home
with one of his 3 hits on the day. Kevin Hickey wins with an inning of relief.

1985
Nursing a sprained left ankle suffered during a pick off play in yesterday's
game against the Rangers, Cal Ripken does not play in an exhibition game
against the midshipmen at the U.S. Naval Academy.

Gorman Thomas, recovering from rotator cuff surgery, smashes 3 homeruns in
Seattle's 14-6 rout of visiting Oakland. The Mariners set a one-game club
record with 7 homeruns. Dave Kingman gets robbed of a monstrous homer when
his deep drive in left bounces off a loud speaker and is caught.

1989
At Washington's RFK Stadium, the Soviet national baseball team loses to
George Washington University 20-1. Soviet 1B Nugzar Pophadze stuns the
crowd with a long HR in the left-field stands, one of 2 Russian hits. Two
days earlier, the Russians were beaten 21-1 by a team from Annapolis.

1990
California's Mark Langston and Mike Witt combine to no-hit the Mariners
1-0 for the first combined no-hitter in the major leagues since 1976. It is
Langston's first start for the Angels since signing as a free agent in the
off-season. 1B Wally Joyner makes an error in the 5th when he overthrows
Langston on Pete O'Brien's grounder. O'Brien tries for 2B, not realizing
that C Lance Parrish baked up the play and has the ball. He's thrown out.

The A's Mike Norris relieves Mike Moore in the 8th and pitches 2 scoreless
innings in a 3-0 win over Minnesota. It is Norris' first ML appearance
since 1983 because of drug, shoulder and tax problems.

1991
Oakland pitcher Eric Show goes on the disabled list with an infected thumb
from repeatedly biting his nails.

Astros SS Eric Yelding rushes the mound after Reds pitcher Rob Dibble throws
a pitch behind Yelding in the Astros' 4-1 victory. Yelding will be fined
$1,000 and suspended one day for his actions, while Dibble will receive a
3-game suspension.

Montreal's Rick Mahler gives up 5 runs in less than 5 innings as the Mets
beat Montreal, 6-3. For Mahler, it is his 11th consecutive loss to the
Mets. Last year he suffered his 11th consecutive defeat against Houston.

1992
Cleveland 2B Carlos Baerga is 6 for 9 in the Indians 7-5, 19-inning loss
to the Red Sox.

Montreal's Archi Cianfrocco gets the most from his first ML hit, collecting
3 ribbies on a single. The runners were off with the pitch with two out
and a 3-2 count and Spike Owen scores from 1B. The Expos beat the Mets, 9-2.

1993
When Brewer catcher Dave Nilsson catches for Graeme Lloyd they become the
first all-Austrailian battery in major league history.

Expos 2B Mike Lansing gets 5 hits in Montreal's 19-9 win over the
Rockies. Lansing had been inserted into the lineup when Delino DeShields
came down with chicken pox.

1994
At the regular season opening of The Ballpark at Arlington, a fan posing
for pictures falls from the railing of the right field homerun porch. Hollye
Minter falls some 35 feet and breaks her right arm, ribs and several bones
in her neck. The Brewers go on to defeat the Rangers, 4-3.

1996
With a 2-1 loss to the Padres away from home, Greg Maddux' major league
record of road victories is halted at 18. The Braves righty was 18-0 with
an ERA under one run per game in 20 regular-season road starts dating back
to July of 1994.

The Mariners get 3 homers from Dan Wilson and HRs from Russ Davis and Ken
Griffey Jr to roll over Detroit 9-1. Randy Johnson, who has a no-hitter
through six innings, is the winner.

1997
To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the integration of baseball, Sharon
Robinson, Jackie's daughter, and Pumpsie Green each throw out the first
pitch at Fenway Park. In 1959, Green became the first black to appear in a
Red Sox uniform making Boston the last team to integrate in the major leagues.

Randy Johnson wins for the first time since last May 12th as the Mariners beat
Boston, 5-3, Johnson has won 13 straight decisions since August 1, 1995. He
allows 4 hits, including 2 homers to John Valentin, in 6 innings. It's the
first home opener loss in 5 years for the Sox.

Snow postpones games in Milwaukee and Denver, while 1,000 fans braves the
cold in Detroit to see the Tigers edge the White Sox, 5-4. Matt Wallback
scores on the front end of a double steal for the Tigers.

1998
Andy Pettitte pitches the Yankees to a 3-1 win over the A's, to put the
team over the .500 mark for the first time in the season. Pettitte earns
his 1st win of the year, beating Tom Candiotti. Derek Jeter has 2 hits,
2 runs and 2 steals.

In the Reds 12-5 win over the host Rockies, the 2 teams tie a 19th century ML
record as 8 players have 3 or more hits. The Reds have 6 players with 3 hits.

1999
The Tampa Bay Devil Rays defeat the Boston Red Sox, 5-4, as P Scott Aldred
picks up the win in relief. The victory ends Aldred's major league record
streak of 50 appearances without a win, loss or save.

The Seattle Mariners defeats the Oakland Athletics, 11-8, as the Mariners
score 8 runs in the 3rd inning.

The Pirates defeat the Cubs, 9-6, despite 5 hits by Chicago OF Glenallen
Hill. Hill strokes 3 singles, a double and a HR, and drives home a pair of
runs in the losing effort.

The Dodgers-Rockies game in Los Angeles is postponed due to rain. It is
the first rainout in LA since April 21, 1988 - a string of 856 games -
and just the 16th in club history.

2000
The Dodgers edge the Giants, 6-5, in the first game played at Pacific Bell
Park in San Francisco. SS Kevin Elster leads the Dodger attack with 3 HRs.

The Tigers sink the Mariners, 5-2, in the first game played at Comerica
Park in Detroit.

The Red Sox defeat the Twins, 13-4, scoring 8 runs in the 2nd inning.

2001
The Braves defeat the Mets, 2-0, as Greg Maddux (7 innings), Mike Remlinger
(1 inning) and John Rocker (1 inning) combine on a one-hitter. Todd Zeile's
2nd inning single is the only NY hit and Maddux retires the last 17 batters
he faces. Maddux has more wins against the Mets (27-16) than he has against
any other team.

The Pirates try and catch lightning in a bottle by signing P Ramon Martinez
to a one year contract. Ramon will get hammered in a few appearances and
retire for good next month.

2002
The Orioles pound Tampa Bay, 15-6, scoring a franchise-high 12 runs in
the 6th inning. They also collect a club-high 11 hits in 16 at-bats. Mike
Bordick leads the way with 3 RBIs.

Doug Davis (2-0) fires a 2-hit complete game as Texas beats Mark Mulder and
the A's, 7-0. Davis, an 11-game winner last season, had been criticized by
pitching coach Oscar Ocasta in spring training for not working hard enough. He
will go 1-5 in his next 8 starts and be demoted to (AAA) Oklahoma. Kevin
Mench hits his first ML HR and drives in 4 runs, while Alex Rodriguez and
Rafael Palmeiro each have 3 hits.

Cubs P Kyle Farnsworth breaks his foot warming up in the bullpen and will
be out of action for 6 weeks.

2003
In the first of its 'home' games at Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan, Puerto
Rico, the Expos rout David Cone and the Mets, 10-0. The Montreal franchise,
which is now owned by major league baseball, will play 22 games here this
season as a new venue is sought for the poorly-attended Canadian team.

Baseball Hall of Fame president, Dale Petroskey, says although he would
still cancel a "Bull Durham" celebration due to anti-war criticism espoused
by its co-stars, Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon, he should have used a
different approach calling the performers to discuss the situation rather
than just sending a letter. The decision sets off a fire storm of debate
with Cooperstown receiving over 5000 emails yesterday, both pro and con,
as well as noted author Roger Kahn canceling his planned August appearance
to speak about his new book "October Men", a work chronicling the 1978
World Champion Yankee team, as a protest.

Rookie Runelvys Hernandez becomes the majors' first 3-game winner as KC
shuts out Cleveland, 1-0, for their 8th straight win. The Royals become
the 1st team to win their 1st 8 games of the season since the Cincinnati
Reds did so in 1990.

Detroit loses to the White Sox, 5-0, to become the 1st ML team to begin
consecutive seasons with 9 straight losses.

The Brewers down Arizona, 11-7, as Geoff Jenkins has his 1st career 5-hit
game for Milwaukee.

2004
The Yankees defeat the White Sox, 5-4, as Mike Mussina records his 200th
career victory.

2006
Wearing a red-and-blue Nationals jacket, Vice President Dick Cheney threw out
the ceremonial first pitch at the home opener at RFK Stadium. Greeted with
a chorus of loud boos, the veep, standing directly in front of the pitching
mound, bounces the ball in front of home plate prior to the hometown team's
loss to the Mets, 7-1.

In the Yankees home Opener, the Bronx Bombers use a 5-run 8th to up end the
Royals, 9-7. Derek Jeter's 3-run homer is the big blow in the frame. Jason
Giambi hits a 3-run homer in the 1st to start the Yankee scoring. Yankee
Stadium public address announcer Bob Sheppard misses the game due to a hip
injury; Sheppard hadn't missed an opener since he began his announcing gig
in 1951, a period of 55 years or 20,083 days. The long-time public address
announcer will return to the microphone during the team's next homestand.

Japanese outfielder Tomoaki Kanemoto sets a new world record for playing
every inning in the most consecutive games, 904, breaking Cal Ripken Jr's
record of 903.

The California Supreme Court rules 6-1 that being hit in the head is "an
inherent risk of baseball" and, therefore, a junior college player cannot
sue to recover damages caused by a beaning he suffered in 2001.

Anthony Velazquez sets a high school record as he throws his second
consecutive perfect game. The junior at Bayside High in New York City,
who goes by the nickname "Tiki," recorded his first perfecto on April 11
against John Browne High then followed with another slice of perfection
against Flushing High. The only other U.S. high school pitchers to throw
two perfect games in their careers were Ken Beardslee in the late 1940s
and L.J. Grantham in 1958 and 1959.

2008
At Minute Maid Park, the Marlins set a club record blasting six home runs
enroute to a 10-6 win over the Astros. Jeremy Hermida hit a pair of round
trippers and teammates Mike Jacobs, Hanley Ramirez, Jorge Cantu and Mike
Rabelo contributed solo homers in Florida's fourth straight victory, the
team's longest winning streak last season.

2010
Mike Leake becomes the first pitcher since Ariel Pieto in 1995 to make
his big league debut without ever spending a day in the minor leagues. The
22-year-old Reds' right-handed starter gives up four hits in 6 2/3 innings
getting a no-decision in the Reds' eventual 3-1 victory over Chicago at
the Great American Ball Park.

The Diamondbacks score a team-record 13-runs in the fourth inning of a 15-6
victory over Pittsburgh. The inning features eight hits, three of which
were homers, also tieing regular season franchise marks.

2017
George Springer for Houston hit his Major League-record fourth leadoff
homer in the first nine games of a season against the Seattle Mariner.

