Apr 14

1903
Ed Delahanty, one of 5 ML brothers, and the greatest natural hitter of his
time, rejoins the Washington Nationals in accordance with the peace terms. A
3-year contract with the Giants at $8,000 a year, signed during the winter,
is canceled. The Nationals reimburse the Giants for the $3,000 advanced to
Big Ed.

1904
At Brooklyn's Washington Park a record 15,000 fans are on hand for the
Opener, delayed until 4 PM. John McGraw's Giants then take the field and
bang out 10 hits to beat Oscar Jones, 7-1. Mathewson allows 3 hits to win.

At chilly Hilltop Park each spectator is given a small American flag as he
enters the park for the Highlanders-Boston game. Ex-Judge Olcott tosses out
the first ball and then Jack Chesbro pitches and bats New York to an 8-2
victory. He scatters six hits and scores two runs on two hits, including a
homer. Both Boston runs come on inside the park homers, by Buck Freeman in
the 7th, and in the 9th by Freddie Parent. New York scores 5 in the first
inning off Cy Young to put the game away.

1905
Wait Till Next Year:  Boston's Kaiser Wilhelm loses to the Giants' Joe
McGinnity 10-1 in the opener at the Polo Grounds before an enthusiastic
estimated crowd of 40,000. He will finish the year 4-22, one of 4 Beaneaters
who will lose 20 or more this year. The other 3 are Irv Young, Vic Willis
and Chick Fraser. The only other team ever to have a quartet of 20-game
losers will be the Beaneaters again in 1906.

At Washington's American League Park, Jimmy Williams' two-run homer,
an inside the park shot in the first inning, helps New York to a 3-0 lead
against lefty Case Patten. An unearned run in the 5th pins the 4-2 loss on
Patten, winner of 14 of Washington's 38 victories last season. Jack Chesbro
wins his second straight opener.

The Cleveland-Detroit game is postponed due to snow.

1906
Little-used Jack Doscher makes his only start of the year for Brooklyn,
but loses to Boston, 1-0. Doscher is the first lefty to start a game for
Brooklyn in 4 years. Used mostly for batting practice, Doscher will shortly
jump the team in a salary squabble. The win goes to Vive Lindaman, making his
first major league start. Vive better get used to the lack of support; he'll
lose 23 games this year, eight by shutouts. No rookie will have it worse.

At Hilltop Park, former player John Montgomery Ward throws out the first
ball before the start of the Highlanders-Boston Americans opener. Veterans
Jack Chesbro and Cy Young struggle to a 1-1 standoff through eleven innings
before New York pushes across an unearned run in the 12th.

1907
At Chicago, the Cubs beat Fred Beebe of the Cardinals, 2-0, with Carl
Lundgren tossing the shutout. For Beebe, it is the first of 11 straight
losses to the Cubs.

The Chicago Tribune wades in today on the topic of hand signals: "There is
nothing but this habit of looking at baseball matters through the umpire's
eyes to explain the failure of the big league presidents to answer the
public demands by instructing their umpires to adopt a simple code of
signals to indicate doubtful decisions on pitched balls, the same as on
base decisions. The umpires objected to being overworked by the necessity of
moving an arm to indicate a 'strike.' Consequently the public must continue
to guess, until electric score boards are installed and perfected, and
then miss some of the play while studying the score board." The next day,
the Tribune noted that umpire Carpenter had been a big hit with the fans
by raising his right hand to indicate a strike. (as noted by Peter Morris)

1908
At Hilltop Park, Slow Joe Doyle scatters four hits in edging the A's, 1-0,
in 12 innings. The first hit is by A's left fielder Topsy Hartsell, who has
his nose broken by an errant pitch during pre-game warmups. Nick Carter,
making his major-league debut, matches Doyle for 11 innings, but in the
12th, a ground rule double into the crowd, and a single put runners at
the corners. A line drive to RF Jack Coombs then scores Red Kleinow with
the winner.

Before 17,000 in Philadelphia, Mathewson scatters 4 Phillies hits and drives
in 2 of the Giants runs. New York wins, 3-1 over George McQuillan.

At Boston, Boston plays their first game under their new nickname "Red Sox"
defeating Washington, 3-1.

1909
On Opening Day in Detroit, Detroit's George Mullin pitches a one-hitter,
beating the White Sox, 2-0, and setting a record for fewest base runners
in an opener. Gavvy Cravath singles and walks, the only Sox to reach base.

1910
With the weather perfect, President and Mrs. William Howard Taft, along with
Veep Sherman, surprise the Nationals by showing up for the season Opener
at American League Park II in Washington, D.C. Jimmy McAleer suggests
Taft throw out the first ball, and he becomes the first president to do
so. Walter Johnson catches it, then pitches the first of his 14 Opening
Day Washington games, striking out 9. An easy fly hit by Frank "Home Run"
Baker into the overflow crowd - a ground-rule double - mars his 3-0 pitching
gem over rival Eddie Plank. Gabby Street is behind the plate for Johnson,
the only Opener in which he catches for Walter.

The White Sox' Frank Smith also throws a one-hit opener, winning 3-0 against
the Browns. Demmitt's single is the only hit for St. Louis. By season's
end the AL will see 13 one-hitters - a league record.

At Robison Field, the Pirates spoil St. Louis' opener by beating Vic Willis,
5-1. The Cards don't help the ex-Pirate by making 5 errors behind him.

Reds pitcher Fred Beebe fires a 3-hitter in stopping the Cubs, 1-0, in
10 innings. Wildfire Schulte has all 3 Chicago hits. Beebe was acquired
in February from the Cards, along with Alan Storke, for Miller Huggins,
Rebel Oakes and Frank Corridon.

In the season opener before 25,000 at New York's Hilltop Park, the Red Sox
sport laced collars, the last major league team to wear a collar. Boston
sends the Yankees into extra innings before the game is called at the end
of 14 innings with the score, 4-4. Ed Cicotte starts for Boston with Joe
Wood relieving in the 8th inning. Jumbo Jim Vaughn goes all the way for
New York, retiring the Boston batters in the 4th and 12th innings on four
pitches. He needs just three pitches in the 10th.

The Giants' Red Ames pitches hitless ball for 6 innings but loses to
the Braves, 3-2, in 11 innings. Chick Evans, in relief of Al Mattern,
is the winner.

Although every opener is played, a record run of bad weather will force
85 postponements between April 15th and June 10th, causing chaos in the
late-season schedule. Combined with an absence of close pennant races,
this will cause a drop in attendance, which will tip 7,000,000 for the year.

1911
Shortly after midnight a tremendous fire breaks out destroying much of the
Polo Grounds leaving the Giants without a place to play. The Highlanders
invite the McGraw men to share Hilltop Park, an offer the displaced National
League team accepts for six weeks until temporary stands are completed at
their damaged ballpark.

Cleveland's great pitcher Addie Joss dies unexpectedly from tubercular
meningitis. Beset with arm injuries last season, Joss made just 13 appearances
last year, but his career ERA of 1.88, compiled in 9 seasons, will earn
him a plaque in Cooperstown.

1912
At Chicago, the Cards trip the Cubs, 5-4. In the 8th, Cards SS Pee Wee
Hauser pulls a hidden ball trick on the Cubs Jimmy Sheckard.

1914
At Fenway Park 24,741 fans are on hand as the Red Sox open the season against
Washington. Walter Johnson doesn't allow a hit till the 6th inning as he
shuts out the Sox, 3-0. Johnson walks none and strikes out 8. Ray Collins
takes the loss.

At Brooklyn, Wilbert Robinson wins his first game as manager, defeating
the Braves, 8-2.

At Philadelphia, the Giants open the season with the Phillies, losing 10-1
to Pete Alexander. Rube Marquard takes the loss. The Phils are led by Sherry
Magee who clubs 2 homers, the first player to hit a pair of homeruns on
Opening Day. It'll next be done by Earl Webb in 1927.

Before 22,000 at the Polo Grounds, the Yankees rock the World Champion
Athletics, 8-2, driving Joe Bush from the mound after two innings. With
only one starter, Roy Hartzell, back from last year's opening lineup, New
York scores 4 in the first and would have scored another in the 2nd inning
but Jeff Sweeney falls rounding 3B. When the burly catcher is helped to his
feet by coach and manager Frank Chance, he is declared out by Billy Evans:
a new rule prohibits coaches from helping runners. Sweeney redeems himself
when he and pitcher Marty McHale pull off a double steal. New York has seven
steals, including two by Sweeney and Fritz Maisel, who steals 2B and 3B in
the 4th inning. Maisel will swipe 74 bases on the year, while Sweeney will
pick up 19, tops for Yankee catchers.

Reds pitcher Rube Benton twirls a 2-hitter against visiting Chicago to
win, 10-1.

1915
The A's young Herb Pennock comes within one out of pitching the first Opening
Day no-hitter. A scratch single by Harry Hooper with two out in the 9th is the
Red Sox' only hit in a 2-0 loss to Philley. Ernie Shore is the loser. The Sox
like what they see in Pennock:  on June 13th they will claim him on waivers.

With government offices closed to commemorate the 50th anniversary of
Abraham Lincoln's death, many government workers, including President Woodrow
Wilson, are among the 15,556 fans on hand for the Washington Opener against
the Yankees. Wilson throws out the first ball and the rest is all Walter
Johnson, who allows just two singles and issues three walks, all to Andy
High. High added two steals. The Senators score 7 runs against the Yankees'
starter Jack Warhop to coast to a 7-0 win.

The Giants open the season with a trouncing of Wilbert Robinson's Dodgers,
16-3.

In Boston, Pete Alexander stops the world champion Braves, 3-0, as the
Phillies beat Dick Rudolph. Bill James, the Braves other star from the
World Series, is in California recovering from an illness incurred in Hawaii
during the all-star world trip. James' career is virtually over.

In the White Sox-Browns Opener, St. Louis reserve outfielder Ernie Walker
swipes home in the bottom of the 11th inning to tie the score, but the
Sox win in 13 innings, 7-6. Red Faber wins in relief of Jim Scott, while
reliever Parson Perryman takes the loss. Bunny Brief homers for Chicago.

1917
In St. Louis, Chicago's Eddie Cicotte pitches a no-hitter over the Browns,
winning easily, 11-0. Cicotte faces just 30 batters, with the only near-hit
a line drive by Jimmy Austin that Chick Gandil fumbles. "And not without
cause, for Jimmy's drive had whiskers like a German who was trapped for ten
days on Vimy Ridge." (Chicago Tribune). Cicotte's 28 wins and 1.53 ERA will
top the AL.

1920
On Opening Day at Cleveland's League Park, 20,000 fans cheer as Stan Coveleski
shuts out the Browns 5-0, beating Indian killer Allen Sothoron. The spitballer
had won 5 of 6 last year from Cleveland.

At Shibe Park, Babe Ruth makes his Yankee debut, lacing two hits, but
dropping an easy fly in center that allows two runs to score in the 8th. The
A's Scott Perry is the beneficiary of Babe's error, winning, 3-1 over Bob
Shawkey. Each allows 7 hits, one homer, and a walk. Wally Pipp lofts a
homer for New York, while Cy Perkins connects for the A's. New York leaves
its best pitcher Carl Mays back in New York, since there is still a warrant
out for his arrest in Philley.

The World Champion Reds open the season in Cincinnati by whipping Grover
Cleveland Alexander, 7-3. The Reds combine 12 hits, including a HR by Edd
Roush, and Dutch Ruether's pitching to beat the Cubs. Alexander has a triple
and all 3 Cub RBIs.

At Pittsburgh, the Pirates win their Opener, 5-4, over the St. Louis
Cardinals. Babe Adams is the winner. It is the first win for new manager
George Gibson, the first Canadian big league manager.

1925
Before 38,000 in the first regular-season game, Pete Alexander pitches the
Cubs to an 8-2 win over the Pirates. Alex homers in his first at bat and adds
a single and double. It is Pete's 301st win. Hartnett also homers, one of
five he'll clout in the first four games. WGN broadcasts its first regular
season baseball game as Quin Ryan announces from the grandstand roof for WGN.

Cleveland defeats St. Louis 21-14, with the Indians winning it with 12
runs in the 8th to set a ML record for the most runs in an opener. Fred
Spurgeon ties a 3-year-old ML record by reaching base twice on errors in
the inning. The usually sure-handed Browns manager George Sisler makes 4
errors at 1B, tying a ML record. Included in the 39 hits this afternoon is
a homerun by Cleveland's Tris Speaker.

Before 22,000 in Philadelphia, two future Hall of Famers make their ML debuts
for the A's. Lefty Grove starts against Boston and leaves in the 4th after
walking 4 and striking out nobody. He gives up 5 runs on 6 hits. In the 8th,
Mickey Cochrane pinch-hits for catcher Cy Perkins, singles, and stays in
behind the plate while the A's go on to score 9 runs in the last 4 innings to
win 9-8 in 10 innings. Grove, known as Groves in Baltimore and to Connie Mack,
is also listed that way in the New York Times boxscore. Grove will become
the first pitcher to lead the AL in strikeouts and walks in the same year.

With Ben Paschal filling in for the ailing Babe Ruth in RF, the Yankees defeat
the Senators, 5-1, before 45,000 at Yankee Stadium. Paschal fills the Babe's
shoes by belting a two-run homer and an RBI single. Urban Shocker, back with
New York after 7 years, is the starter and winner for New York. Because of
the cold weather the Nats go with George Mogridge instead of Walter Johnson,
and he allows 9 hits in 7 innings while taking the loss.

At Cincinnati, Reds ace Pete Donohue wins his second opener in 3 years,
shutting out the Cards, 4-0. Jess Haines is the loser. The game takes 1
hour 20 minutes.

1930
President Herbert Hoover continues the tradition of throwing out the first
ball on Opening Day in Washington, a day before the rest of the ML teams
begin. The Red Sox win 4-3 over the Senators, winners of their last 11
exhibition games. The Sox won't stay in first place long:  they will end
the year with their 6th straight last place finish.

1931
President Herbert Hoover throws out the first ball at Washington. Lefty
Grove, in relief, gets the first win of what will be his greatest season. The
A's win 5-3 in 11 innings. Lloyd Brown allows just 2 hits in the first 8
innings for the Senators.

Under new managers - Shano Collins for Boston, and Joe McCarthy for New
York - the Yankees open at the Stadium with a 6-3 victory over the Red
Sox. Red Ruffing gives up a leadoff triple and a run in the first, but the
Yankees respond with two runs in the 2nd off Wilcy Moore. New York's last
score is a 7th-inning solo shot by the Babe, off reliever Ed Durham. Boston
threatens in the 8th, getting a two-run pinch homer from Tom Winsett in his
first major league at-bat. Winsett is the first player to take advantage
of the new fair/foul rule regarding HRs. He hits a ball that curves foul
after leaving the playing field, but in the judgment of the umps was a fair
ball at the time it left the playing field. Then with two on, Red Ruffing
induces Earl Webb to ground into a 3rd out.

At Cincinnati, Flint Rhem, who finished the 1930 season for the Cards with
8 straight wins, starts the 1931 season the same way, with a 7-3 win over
the Reds. Rhem goes 6 innings before leaving for a pinch hitter with the
Cards losing 2-1. The Reds score 2 off Rhem in the bottom of the 6th,
but the Cards retake the lead in the 7th to get the win for Rhem.

At Boston, the Dodgers lose 7-4 to the Braves. Tom Zachary and Bill Sherdel
do the pitching for the Braves, while Jack Quinn makes his final ML start
as the Opening Day pitcher for the Dodgers. The Pennsylvanian's 15 saves
will pace the NL this year, and his 8 saves will lead in 1932. At age 47,
the spitballing Quinn is the oldest ML Opening Day starter ever.

1933
At Yankee Stadium, pitcher Red Ruffing breaks a 2-2 tie with the Red Sox
by belting a game-ending grand slam in the 9th inning. New York wins,
6-2. It is the only walk-off grand slam in ML history to date; the one
previous 9th inning grand slam winner - Jack Stivett's June 10, 1890 -
occurred in the top of the inning, even though his team was playing at home.

1935
Cincinnati returns Johnny Mize to St. Louis, getting a $55,000 refund on
the provisional purchase.

1936
At Griffith Stadium, Vice-President James Garner makes the march to the
flagpole for the President. Then to a standing ovation from 31,000 Franklin
Roosevelt tosses out the first ball (but misses the catcher) in the Senators'
opener against New York. Nats starter Bobo Newsom pitches a masterful game,
surviving a 5th inning beaning when he is hit by a throw to first by 3B
Ossie Bluege, to shut out the Yankees, 1-0, on 4 hits. Lefty Gomez loses
his second straight 1-0 Opener. Roosevelt stays till the 9th, munching
peanuts and keeping his own scorecard.

In a 12-7 loss to the Cubs, Cardinals rookie Eddie Morgan pinch-hits and
drives the first pitch he sees from Lon Warneke for a HR, the only one
he'll hit in a 39-game career. He is the first to hit a pinch HR in his
first at-bat. Billy Herman leads the Cubs going 5 for 5 with 3 doubles and
a homer. Frank Demaree has a pair of roundtrippers, while Gabby Hartnett
and Chuck Klein have one apiece. Augie Galan, who hit into no double plays
last year, hits into one his first time up.

For the 2nd year in a row, Waite Hoyt is the winner in the Reds opener. The
Pirate ace wins 8-6. Babe Herman has 4 hits.

1937
Judge Landis declares minor leaguer Tommy Henrich a free agent, voiding his
Cleveland contract. This is another of the cover-up situations Landis hated,
and the balance of the scale for letting Cleveland keep Bob Feller. In 4
days, Henrich will sign with the Yankees for $25,000.

1938
In an exhibition game, Holy Cross College beats the Red Sox, 3-2.

1940
With two outs in the 9th inning of an exhibition game against the Dodgers
in Brooklyn, Joe DiMaggio injures his knee sliding into 2B. Joe will miss
Opening Day for the 4th time in five years.

At the Bee Hive in Boston, the Bees beat the Red Sox, 7-5, before a crowd
of 9,900. Yesterday's match was called off because of bad weather.

In Los Angeles, Carlos Bernier homers in the 18th inning to give Hollywood
a 6-5 PCL win over the Angels. It is the longest game ever at Wrigley Field.

1941
With the only game scheduled in sweltering Washington, writers for The
Sporting News select Cincinnati to repeat in the NL and Cleveland to win
the AL. Franklin Roosevelt tosses out the first ball, and then the Yankees
score single runs in the 1st, 4th and 5th innings off Dutch Leonard to win,
3-0. Mario Russo allows three hits and drives in a run with a double to
win. Phil Rizzuto, like Russo a graduate of New York's Richmond Hills High
School, is hitless in his debut, but fields flawlessly.

1942
In Washington, Vice President Henry Wallace fills in for FDR and tosses
out the first ball. Then Red Ruffing makes his 5th and final Opening Day
start for the Yankees, holding the Senators to 3 singles as the Yanks win,
7-0. The Yankees tally 3 runs in the 2nd inning off the Senators young righty
Sid Hudson for all the scoring they need. For Ruffing, it is his 245th career
victory tying him with Ted Lyons for most wins by an active pitcher. Helping
to keep order at the park are 80 auxiliary police from DC's 13th precinct -
"40 whites and 40 negroes."

Ted Williams opens the season with a 3-run first-inning homer at Fenway
Park. He adds 2 other hits and 5 RBI, as the Red Sox beat the A's 8-3.

1947
The Yankees release two veterans, relief ace Johnny Murphy and first
baseman Nick Etten. Murphy will be signed by the Red Sox while Etten, the
AL homerun leader in 1944 and RBI leader in 1945, will catch on briefly
with the Phillies.

1949
Bobo Newsom signs as a free agent with the Senators. The 41-year-old right
hander, who will not appear with the club until the 1952 season, becomes
the first major leaguer to join the same team on five different occasions
(1935-37, '42, '43, '46-47, '52).

1953
Bob Lemon almost throws an Opening Day no-hitter against the White Sox,
but the attempt is spoiled by Minnie Minoso's first inning single. The
Indians' hurler almost loses his shutout when fleet footed outfielder Jim
Rivera walks, steals second, and goes to third on a grounder, but is thrown
out trying to steal home. Avila homers as does WP Lemon, both off Rogovin,
who lasts 4 innings.

In a 3-2 victory, Braves Billy Bruton, generously listed as 24 years old,
hits the first ML HR in Milwaukee's County Stadium, in the 10th inning off
Gerry Staley of the Cards. Bruton had hit a triple and scored earlier in
the game, but the Cards score a pair in the 9th off Spahn to tie. Bruton's
homer tips off Enos Slaughter's glove and is first ruled a double. Bruton
won't homer again for a year and a half. This is the first game for the home
crowd since 1901 when the Milwaukee Brewers were charter members of the AL.

In Philadelphia, the A's Alex Kellner shuts out the Yankees, 5-0, on five
singles. Catcher Ray Murray and Allie Clark hit 5th inning HRs for the
A's. Vic Raschi pitches six innings and takes the loss.

In his first start for the Browns, Virgil Trucks fires a 4-hitter to stop his
old team, the Tigers, 10-0. The loss goes to former Brownie, Ned Garver. The
Opener, seen by 11,804, is the first night opener in Browns history.

1954
The Baltimore Orioles win their first game, tipping the Tigers, 3-2, behind
pitcher Duane Pillette.

Don Newcombe, back from the army and starting his 1st game since his playoff
with the Giants in 1951, stops the Polo Grounders on 6 hits. The Dodgers win,
6-4, and Newk has 2 RBIs in going 9 innings.

1955
Elston Howard, who will be named the American League's MVP in 1963, becomes
the first black to play for the Yankees. He singles in his first at-bat,
against the Red Sox, as the Yanks lose, 8-4. The former Monarchs' catcher
will appear in nine All-Star Games and 54 World Series games, compiling a
.274 batting average during his 14-year playing career.

In the home opener at St. Louis, Cards reliever Frank Smith pulls a Merkle
boner in the 10th inning depriving the Birds of a winning run. With 2 outs,
Smith reaches 1B, sending Stephenson to 3B. Moon's single seemingly scores
Stephenson, but Smith turns back without touching 2B. Aaron's throw to
O'Connell forces him for the 3rd out. Virdon takes Smith off the hook in
the 11th with a HR off Dave Koslo to win, 8-7. The Cards have 6 homers in
the game.

Brooklyn P Don Newcombe hits 2 HRs, off Maglie and Wilhelm, in a 10-8 win
over the Giants at the Polo Grounds.

The Orioles buy P Jim Wilson from the Braves.

1958
In the presidential opener in Washington, the Red Sox lose to the Senators,
5-2. The Sox are playing without Ted Williams, sidelined because of food
poisoning attributed to eating bad oysters yesterday on the train from
Richmond. The game today is the first played under the new AL rules that
batters must wear a protective helmet.

The San Francisco Board of Supervisors rejects the plan to move the proposed
site for a new stadium from Bayview to downtown.

1959
Let's hit two! Ernie Banks clouts a pair of 2-run homers off Jack Sandford
to give the Cubs a 5-2 win over the Giants. Bob Hillman pitches into the
9th inning for the win. Sanford won't forget and will hit Ernie three times
this year with pitches,

The Dodgers set a new night-game attendance record when 61,552 fans watch
their home opener against the Cards. Lindy McDaniel spoils the party with
a 6-hitter and beats Johnny Podres, 6-2. Hal Smith hits a 2-run homer for
St. Louis.

In Havana, Fidel Castro throws out the first ball the open the International
League season and the game between Havana and Toronto. The ambassadors of
the U.S., Canada, Venezuela and Mexico look on. Fireworks and the release
of 26 pigeons add to the festivities.

1960
After a 9-4 Opening Day loss to the Reds, Eddie Sawyer decides he's had it
with managing and quits the Phillies, stating, "I'm 49 and I want to live
to be 50." He came to Philadelphia from Toronto (International League)
in 1948 and has managed no other ML team. Interim manager Andy Cohen wins
one game before Gene Mauch, the skipper of the Red Sox AAA affiliate,
the Minneapolis Millers (American Association), gets the job and begins
a 26-year managerial career in the bigs. Sawyer compiled a 390-423 (.480)
record in his 8-year tenure (1948-52, 1958-60) in the Philadelphia dugout.

At San Francisco, the Cubs win 6-5 despite a helping hand by Cubs pitcher Moe
Drabowsky. Moe, warming up in the bullpen when teammate Frank Thomas lines
a ball down the 3B line, fields the double cleanly, and the interference
holds Thomas to a single. But Thomas has a wind-blown double in the 9th to
win the game. Banks has a grand slam in the 3rd to counter 3 solo homers
by the Giants.

1961
At Tiger Stadium, Frank Lary tosses a one-hitter beating the White Sox,
7-0. The lone hit comes in the fifth inning when Jim Landis singles off
the glove of shortstop Chico Fernandez.

Joe McClain earns the new Senators' first win, defeating Cleveland 3-2.

At Busch Stadium in St. Louis, the Reds' Wally Post lines a tape measure
shot off the Budweiser sign atop the scoreboard in the Reds 7-3 win. If
the ball had not hit the sign, some estimate the shot could have traveled
close to 600 feet.

1963
Phillies reliever Jack Baldschun picks up both wins today as the Phils
sweep a doubleheader from the Cards, 4-3 and 5-4. Baldschun pitches the
10th inning of the opener and another two innings of the nitecap.

1964
San Francisco's 5 HRs match the mark for Opening Day round-trippers. Juan
Marichal beats Warren Spahn and the Braves 8-4.

Sandy Koufax throws his 9th complete game without allowing a walk as he
beats St. Louis, 4-0, in his only start as an Opening Day pitcher.

The Giants purchase Duke Snider from the Mets, answering the trivia question:
Who played for the Brooklyn and LA Dodgers, the Giants and the Mets?

1965
In a banner finish, Al Spangler stars for the Astros by swiping home with
the winning run in the 11th to give the Astros a 7-6 win over the Mets.

1967
At Yankee Stadium, Red Sox 21-year-old southpaw rookie Bill Rohr debuts
and startles everyone by taking a no-hitter into the 9th inning. But Elston
Howard lines a 3-2 pitch for a single to right-center with two outs. Carl
Yastrzemski had kept the no-hitter alive with a spectacular grab of a
Tom Tresh drive to deep LF to open the 9th. The Red Sox win, 3-0, beating
Whitey Ford, who allows a lead-off homer to Reggie Smith and a two-run homer
to Foy. Although his beloved Red Sox win, a heartbroken six-year-old fan,
John-John, sitting near the Boston dugout has to be consoled by his mother,
Jackie Kennedy.

1968
New York suffers a 4-3 loss to Minnesota and loses OF Joe Pepitone with a
fractured left elbow.

Jim Bunning's first win with Pittsburgh, 3-0 at Los Angeles, is his 40th
career shutout and includes his 1,000th NL strikeout, making him the first
pitcher since Cy Young with 1,000 in each league.

1969
In the first regular season game played outside the United States, the
Expos play their first home game, treating 29,184 fans at Jarry Park to an
8-7 win over St. Louis. Montreal moundsman Larry Jaster throws baseball's
first international pitch to Cardinal left fielder Lou Brock. Dan McGinn
is the winner.

1970
San Francisco outslugs the Braves, 15-11, though Steve Whitaker doesn't
help much, striking out 5 times.

At Wrigley Field, Ken Holtzman pitches the Cubs to a 5-4 win over the
Phillies. At the end of the game, hundreds of fans swarm the field, many
of them climbing over the wall in right field. The melee prompts the Cubs
management to install a restraint in RF, an 18-inch wire basket jutting
out at an angle from the 11-foot-high wall.

1974
Yankee Graig Nettles blasts 4 HRs - 2 in each game - during a doubleheader
split with his former team, the Indians. The Yanks win 9-5, then lose
9-6. Murcer has a homer in each game while Duncan hits a pair in game
2. Nettles will go on to tie the ML record with 11 HRs in the month of April.

In the 8th inning of Detroit's 7-5 win over the Red Sox, Willie Horton
mortally wounds a pigeon with a foul fly directly over home plate in Fenway
Park. The pigeon lands at the feet of C Bob Montgomery. On the next pitch
Horton grounds a single to LF.

1976
At Chicago, Mets Dave Kingman launches a HR estimated at 550 feet that
plunks a house some 530 feet from home plate, but the Cubs survive to win,
6-5, and tie for 1st. Buddy Schultz cops his only victory of the year,
and Hank Webb, in his only decision of the year, takes the loss. Capping
the day is Randy Hundley, signed after the Padres release him, who ignites
a 3-run rally in the 7th with a pinch double.

1978
The largest Opening Day crowd ever, 45,777, attend the Wrigley Field opener
against Pittsburgh. Although the team gives up an early 3-0 lead, the hometown
fans will not go home disappointed when Larry Biittner, leading off in the
bottom of the ninth inning, homers giving the Cubs a 4-3 walk-off victory.

In the Red Sox home opener, starter Dennis Eckersley pitches into the 10th
inning before giving way to Dick Drago. Jim Rice's 395 foot single scores
Butch Hobson with the winner in the bottom of the 10th, and Boston wins 5-4.

Darrell Jackson of Orlando (Southern League) makes his pro debut, no-hitting
Jacksonville for 9 innings. Orlando wins 1-0 in the 12th.

1980
The Reds trip the Giants, 6-5 when Dave Collins rips a bases loaded triple
in the bottom of the 9th.

1981
At San Diego, Reds P Bruce Berenyi fires a 2-hitter to beat the Pads, 4-0.

1982
In the longest game ever played at Anaheim Stadium, the Angels beat Seattle,
4-3, on Bob Boone's RBI single in the bottom of the 20th inning. The game
began yesterday but was suspended after 17 innings. In the 20 innings,
Angels SS Rick Burleson accounts for an ML-record 15 assists. In the
scheduled contest, California wins again, 2-1, in 10 innings.

1983
The Twins cancel their night game with the Angels because of a winter storm
and the fact that the Angels can't make their connections. Late this evening
a chunk of ice will tear a 20 foot hole in the roof of the Metrdome causing
it to deflate.

1985
At Atlanta, the Braves defeat the Padres 3-1 behind Rick Mahler and 2B
Glenn Hubbard, who as a ML-record tying 12 assists. Second base also sees
action on the Pads side as Tony Gwynn throws out 2 runners there. LaMar Hoyt
gives up the 3 Braves runs in 4 innings of work. In 6 days, on April 20,
Juan Samuel, second sacker of the Phillies will be the next to match the
12 assists in a 7-6 Philadelphia win over the New York Mets. Monte Ward,
for Brooklyn in 1892, was the first to make 12 assists.

The Royals send Mike Brewer to the Indians for a player to be named
later. Brewer is the player to be named later, returning to the Indians on
September 17.

1988
The AAA Buffalo Bisons open their new 19,500 seat Pilot Field, named after
Pilot Air Freight which paid $1.02 million for the naming rights. The Stadium
replaces War Memorial Stadium, nicknamed the Rockpile, which has been given
to Canisius College. In this opener, Buffalo tops the Denver Zephyrs, 1-0,
before 19,500. Buffalo's attendance will jump from 495,000 to 1,147,651
this year, a new minor-league record.

1990
Oriole Cal Ripken begins a streak which leads to a major league record for
the most errorless games (95) and total chances (431) by a shortstop.

Bret Saberhagen gets the win and Mark Davis earns the save as Kansas City
beats Toronto, 3-1. It is the first time ever that 2 reigning Cy Young
Award winners have figured in the same victory.

1991
In the 3rd inning of the Rangers 15-3 win over the Orioles, Nolan Ryan becomes
the 12th pitcher in history to reach 5,000 innings pitched. Ryan notches
the victory for his 1st win of the year and his 1st over the Orioles in 15
years. Since beating the Birds as an Angel, in 1976, Ryan had lost 9 straight.

1993
After establishing the all-time career major league record last night with
his 358th save, Cardinal reliever Lee Smith breaks the National League mark
recording his 301st in the senior circuit.

P Graeme Lloyd and C Dave Nilsson form the 1st all-Australian battery in
major league history in the Brewers' 12-2 loss to the Angels. The 2 Aussies
pitch in the 9th, when the Angels score 6 runs, after scoring 5 in the 8th.

Padres 2B Tim Teufel strokes 5 hits in a losing cause as San Diego falls
to the Pirates, 11-7.

1996
John Smoltz loses his no-hit bid when Tony Gwynn hits a one-out fly ball in
the 7th that pops out of Ryan Klesko's mitt just before he hits the fence. The
hit is ruled a double. Smoltz K's 13 and allows the one hit before giving
way to Mark Wohlers in the 9th as the Braves top the Padres, 4-0.

Minutes before the start of the 2nd game with the Astros at Cincinnati, Reds'
owner Marge Schott walks on the field to apologize to Larry Vandover and the
umpiring crew for her remarks following the death of John McSherry. Crew chief
Harry Wendelstedt is mystified, saying, "I had no idea what she was doing
out there." The Reds take the 2nd game, 9-8, after winning the opener, 5-3.

Julio Franco's homer in the 11th gives the Indians a 7-6 win over the Red
Sox. Boston is 2-8, and off to their worst start since 1945.

1997
The Braves pound the Reds, 14-5, behind Kenny Lofton's 5 hits, 2 SBs and 5
runs scored. Deion Sanders, wearing his short-sleeve uniform, ties a Reds
record with 4 steals. In early April, Deion had shorten the sleeves in a
misguided gesture to honor Jackie Robinson. Sanders copied a Jackie photo
on a box of Wheaties, a photo in which he appears to have no sleeves on his
uniform. When told he was in violation of a dress code, the Reds voted to
join Deion, and they appeared on field that way April 11.

1998
Atlanta rookie pitcher Kevin Millwood pitches a 1-hitter against Pittsburgh,
shutting out the Pirates, 6-0. He fans 13 in the contest, without walking
a single batter.

Mark McGwire of the Cardinals hits 3 HRs and notches 5 ribbies in a 15-5
victory over the Diamondbacks. Matt Williams hits a grand slam, the first
in Diamondbacks history.

1999
The Yankees defeat the Orioles, 14-7, as Chuck Knoblauch gets 5 hits,
including his 1st HR of the year, for the winners.

The Indians score 9 runs in the 6th inning on their way to an 11-4 win over
the Royals.

The Mets down the Marlins, 4-1, as NY reliever John Franco records the
400th save of his career. Only Lee Smith has notched more, with 478.

Speaking of 400s. In the Devil Rays 7-6, 11 inning loss to Toronto, Jose
Canseco hits his 400th HR. He is the 28th player to reach that mark, but
the first born outside the US.

Yankees OF Darryl Strawberry is arrested in Tampa on charges of soliciting
a prostitute and possession of cocaine. Strawberry has been at the Yankees'
extended training camp while he works himself back into shape following
colon cancer surgery last October 3.

2000
The Mets outlast the Pirates, 8-5, in 12 innings. C Mike Piazza gets 5 hits
for NY, including a double and 2 HRs.

Adam Kennedy ties a ML record in pacing Anaheim to a 16-10 win at
Toronto. Kennedy hits a HR and triple, both with the bases loaded, to tie
a record held by 8 National Leaguers and 2 in the AL. His hits come in
consecutive innings.

2001
By scoring in their 175th consecutive game, the Reds set the modern National
League record for not being shut out by an opponent. Ironically, to break
the record, Cincinnati beats Al Leiter and the Mets, 1-0, the last team and
pitcher to blank the franchise. Chris Reitsma and Danny Graves combine for
Cincinnati. The previous record was held by the 1992-93 Phillies.

A major league record is set as 11 one-run games (six in AL and five in NL)
are played, breaking the mark of 10 set on May 30, 1967.

2002
Mascots from all the major league teams as well as Sandy the Seagull,
of the near-by farm team Brooklyn Cyclones, attend a birthday party held
for Mr. Met at Shea Stadium. The Amazins' 38-year-old bobble-headed good
luck charm, believed to be the first live mascot in big league history,
appeared in the flesh, so to speak, in 1964 after being an illustration on
the cover of scorecards the season before.

The Twins score 8 runs in the 8th inning to overcome a 7-5 deficit and go
on to defeat the Tigers, 13-7. David Ortiz' pinch 3-run triple is the big
blow in the inning.

The Mariners top the Rangers, 9-7, as Ruben Sierra strokes 5 hits, including
a double. Seattle rookie DH Ron Wright makes his ML debut in the game,
going 0 for 3 and accounting for 6 outs on a strikeout, double play and
triple play. He becomes the 2nd player since 1950 to hit into a TP in his
debut (Leo Foster did it for Atlanta in 1971) when Kenny Rogers fields his
comebacker in the 4th. It is Wright's only appearance this year. Rogers
allows a run in 6 innings, but the bullpen almost blows it for him. Alex
Rodriguez has a pair of homers for Texas.

2004
In the game played after teammate Mike Mussina earns his 200th career
victory, Kevin Brown, who was obtained from the Dodgers for Jeff Weaver and
two minor-leaguers in an off-season trade, reaches the same plateau beating
the Devil Rays, 5-1. It is the first time in baseball history members of the
same pitching staff have won their 200th career victory in consecutive starts.

Joining Johnny Lucadello (1940 Browns), U.L. Washington (1979 Royals),
Bret Barberie (1991 Expos) and Brian Simmons (1998 White Sox), Aaron Miles
becomes the fifth player in history to hit his first two career homeruns
from different sides of the plate in the same game. In a 14-4 drubbing of
the Diamondbacks at Coors Field, the Rockies switch-hitting second baseman
hits a solo homer in the first inning batting lefty off Elmer Dessens and
then goes deep in the 5th inning with two on as a right-handed batter off
southpaw Stephen Randolph.

2005
The Nationals beat the Diamondbacks, 5-3, in the first game played in
Washington, DC since 1971. Livan Hernandez gets the win for Washington and
Vinny Castilla hits a HR and drives in 4 runs.

2006
At Mets Team Store beginning today through the April 17 tax deadline, fans
can have their taxes done for free by Gilman Ciocia. The Shea TAX-TEAM will
also prepare an automatic extension for those who are not ready to file.

The Pirates place 1B Sean Casey on the 16 day DL after John Mabry
inadvertently strikes Casey in the back with his elbow. Casey suffers 2
fractures in his lower back and is expected to miss 6-8 weeks. The Bucs
will call up utilityman Mike Edwards and move P Kip Wells from the 15 to
the 60-day DL.

Kevin Millwood of the Rangers tops Barry Zito of the A's as both go 7
innings in the 6-3 Texas win. Frank Thomas of the A's hits his 200th HR as
a DH to join Babe Ruth and Ernie Banks as the only big-leaguers to hit 200
or more homers at two different positions. Ruth hit 357 as a right fielder
and 313 as a left fielder. Banks hit 210 as a first baseman and 277 as a
shortstop. Thomas hit 249 as a first baseman.

2010
Detroit's Johnny Damon records his 1000th career RBI with a double in the
5th inning against the Kansas City Royals. Damon becomes the 264th player
to reach this mark.

Jose Guillen of Kansas City records his 200th career homerun in the 7th
inning against the Detroit Tigers. Guillen becomes the 296th player to
reach this mark.

2017
Hank Aaron, who also did the traditional toss for the Braves in the first
and last contests at Turner Field, throws the ceremonial first pitch,
with former long-time team manager Bobby Cox serving as the catcher, prior
to the inaugural game at SunTrust Park. Atlanta's center fielder Ender
Inciarte records the first out, first hit, first run, and first home run
in the team’s 5-2 victory over the Padres at the new ballpark.

The first time in baseball history that a team starts three fly-chasers with
the same surname in the same game occurs when left fielder Willy Garcia,
center fielder Leury Garcia, and right fielder Avisail Garciaare appear in
the Twins' lineup at Target Field. In the 1960's, the three Alou brothers,
Felipe, Jesus, and Matty, patrolled the same outfield on three occasions,
but the trio of siblings never started the contest at the same time.

2021
Yadier Molina of the Cardinals became the sixth catcher in Major League
history to catch 2,000 games in his career. He reached this milestone
against the Washington Nationals. Molina also becomes the first player to
do this with a single team.

The Boston Red Sox, in the second game of a doubleheader against the
Minnesota Twins, became the first team in Major League history to open the
season with at least three straight losses and immediately follow that by
winning at least nine straight games.

2022
Vladimir Guerrero Jr. of Toronto became the first player in Major League
history to hit three homeruns in a game (13 Apr), then strike out at least
four times the following game. He did it against the New York Yankees.

